The long, arduous journey that was the fantasy football season came to an end as we waved goodbye to the 2012 calendar year. We watched a very strange, topsy-turvy campaign that included myriad injuries, confusing performance trends and the disappearances of many former stars.
  	Of course, we’ve already had one huge injury in the postseason that served to shake up those early 2013 fantasy draft boards. So, we can’t put the spreadsheets away altogether. (You weren’t leaving football behind anyway.)
  	Soon, we’ll start inundating you with fantastic statistical breakdowns on the diamond. Pitchers and catchers are just a few short weeks from reporting to Arizona and Florida. Before we do, I wanted to put a few thoughts out about the rookie class of 2012 and offer some names for late wide receiver slots on your draft board. It’s my way of celebrating the brilliance of “All-Name Team” captain and fantasy hero Cecil Shorts III.
  	
  	The results from the Wild Round of the NFL Playoffs took a backseat to a monumental injury in Washington. On Wednesday, January 9th, Robert Griffin III underwent surgery to repair the LCL and ACL in his right knee (his second ACL repair). Evidently, there was no clear ACL damage on the early MRIs, but it required repair once Dr. James Andrews further assessed the damage during surgery. As a result, the compound damage extends the timeline for Griffin III’s return to the field.
  	You can hope for the Adrian Peterson-inspired return from RGIII in 2013. I will give Mike Shanahan credit for securing a second option in the 2012 NFL Draft. Kirk Cousins slides into the starter role during Griffin III’s absence and becomes a mid-QB2 fantasy option. Remember, Cousins led the Redskins to a victory in Week 15 over the Browns, completing 26-of-37 attempts for 329 yards with two touchdowns and an interception (two sacks and 22 rushing yards). With a healthy Pierre Garcon, the return of Fred Davis and a strong running game onboard, Cousins should succeed in the top spot.
  	Andrew Luck led the Colts into the playoffs after passing for over 4,300 yards in the regular season. Granted, he closed out the regular season by passing for 205 passing yards or less in four consecutive games and failed to complete more than 50% of his pass attempts in his final five regular season games. He did have record six 300-yard games. Luck exceeded expectations, registering 28 total touchdowns against 23 turnovers in what was expected to be a dismal rookie season. There is a talented nucleus in the passing game, including two tight ends, though the team will need to find a complement to Vick Ballard in the backfield. Luck will enter 2013 drafts as a mid-QB1 option.
  	
 	This could be a season of destiny for the Harbaugh-led 49ers. See who's in the playoffs, and when they play.
 
   	I remember the calls for Russell Wilson to be benched following the first quarter of the season despite recording victories over the Cowboys and Packers. Wilson’s second half of the season made him one of the great stories of the 2012 season. The rookie from Wisconsin produced multiple touchdowns in eight of his final nine starts and he became a rushing threat.
  	Wilson will eventually work the ball downfield more frequently, but this squad is built to run the ball and play suffocating defense. In 2012, Wilson attempted more than 25 passes in only five games. He’ll retain a mid-QB2 rank heading into draft season with upside.
  	Ryan Tannehill finished a distant fourth in the rookie quarterback sweepstakes this season, but the Dolphins found their signal-caller for the future. Tannehill passed for nearly 3,300 yards despite injury and consistency issues in the receiving corps. Of course, Tannehill did pass for 200 yards or less in seven games that he finished (three with more than 250 yards). He threw 12 touchdown passes against 13 interceptions. With upgrades to the receiving corps via the draft or free agency, Tannehill should round into a more consistent performer. Still, he’s just a borderline back-end QB2 on the early draft board.
  	Chip Kelly reportedly talked about Colt McCoy as a viable option for the Browns during his short-lived flirtation with the squad. I don’t see how Brandon Weeden was dismissed so quickly after passing for nearly 3,400 yards (3,385) with 14 touchdowns against 17 interceptions (he missed the finale). There’s a very nice core in Cleveland with Trent Richardson, speedster Josh Gordon and Greg Little.
  	As this was written, the Eagles were still pushing through the interview process for the head coaching job. The team will reportedly move forward without Michael Vick, thereby putting Nick Foles into the top spot. Foles passed for 1,699 yards while completing nearly 61% of his pass attempts in seven games. The Philadelphia offense is stocked with speed options and big-time playmakers. Foles will be able to thrive, provided that the team is able to build a serviceable offensive line this offseason. He’s a second-line QB2 out of the gate.
  	Second-Year Performers
  	While we lament the decision to leave RGIII on the field and his subsequent surgery, we must applaud Mike and Kyle Shanahan for leaving the running back shuffle in the past. Alfred Morris amassed 1,613 rushing yards overall with 13 touchdowns and dominated opponents down the stretch. He rushed for more than 76 yards in all but two games this season and carried the ball at least 20 times in seven consecutive games to close out 2012. I still fear Shanahan turning back to his old ways in 2013, particularly with RGIII’s injury on the board. Still, Morris will be a mid-RB1 entering 2013 fantasy drafts.
  	
   	Doug Martin produced a fantastic season for the Buccaneers despite obvious issues on the offensive line and defensive lapses that forced Josh Freeman to take to the air. Martin earned five 100-yard games this season and helped bolster his stats by availing himself as a receiver (49 receptions for 472 yards). If you can spin Martin’s stats well to your league mates, you may find yourself a bargain on draft day. He rushed for 62 yards or fewer on six occasions, including four of his final six games.
  	Trent Richardson finished third among rookie running backs, producing 1,267 yards with 11 total touchdowns. Richardson achieved three 100-yard games and was limited to fewer than 50 rushing yards on seven occasions before missing the finale because of ankle/rib injuries. Richardson reportedly played much of the 2012 season with broken ribs. He’ll appear on the board as a high-RB2 option for 2013.
  	Ronnie Hillman was expected to become “the man” when Willis McGahee was injured midway through the 2012 season. Instead, Knowshon Moreno emerged from nowhere to claim the top slot and produced fantastic numbers to help fuel the 11-game winning streak. Hillman produced 330 rushing yards on 85 attempts this season (3.9 yards per carry). I’m not ready to bury him yet, but the team will certainly have some interesting decisions to make at the position. He’s worthy of a late-round flier given the current roster composition with upside.
  	Daryl Richardson earned the second slot in the St. Louis backfield behind Steven Jackson and amassed more than 600 total yards. He’ll be challenged in 2013 by Isaiah Pead, who slid off the radar after being selected in the second round. Pead logged only 10 carries in 2012, five of which came in the season finale against Seattle. I expect Pead to slide ahead on the depth chart and become a formidable No. 2 behind Jackson.
  	Dwayne Allen and Coby Fleener will grow alongside Andrew Luck in Indianapolis. Allen caught 45-of-66 targets for 521 yards, though he logged only three touchdowns. Fleener caught 26-of-48 and missed part of the season because of a shoulder injury. Allen is the more intriguing option for me in fantasyland as a potential red zone beast.
  	I’ll spare the lengthy analysis of Alshon Jeffery and Kendall Wright here. Both flashed signs of becoming big-time performers in 2012. Jeffery had his rookie season upended by injury, while Wright battled a crowded receiving corps and inconsistent quarterback play. Likewise, Chris Givens amassed 42 receptions and demonstrated great downfield play-making ability for Sam Bradford. The Rams will be interesting to watch in year two for Jeff Fisher.
  	Jarius Wright closed out the season well, producing eight receptions (14 targets) for 143 yards in the final two games against the Texans and Packers. He amassed 22 receptions for 310 yards overall, including a huge 65-yard touchdown reception against Green Bay. Wright will take on a much larger role in his second year whether Percy Harvin returns to Minnesota or not. Obviously, there’s still a huge question at quarterback (are you a Ponder believer?), but there’s speed and downfield capability here.
  	Unless there’s a complete overhaul in New York, you won’t have to take much of a risk in selecting Stephen Hill late in your 2013 drafts. He produced 21 receptions on 47 targets as a rookie for 2512 yards, though he did missed five games.
  	Looking Deep: Next Year’s Cecil Shorts III
  	Tandon Doss will enter his third year with the Ravens in 2013, and he’s been tabbed as a potential replacement for Anquan Boldin. Doss caught 7-of-17 targets in 2012 for 123 yards. He’s a 6-foot-2 receiver who logged 140 receptions for 1,668 yards in his final two seasons at Indiana.
  	The Texans continue their search for a No. 2 receiving option opposite Andre Johnson. Sure, Owen Daniels has been a steady option over the middle with an occasional deep throw in the mix, but there’s not a steady downfield option otherwise (it’s no longer Kevin Walter’s run). Keshawn Martin, a fourth-round pick out of Michigan State, caught 10 passes for 85 yards while operating as a return man for the Texans in 2012. DeVier Posey, a third-round pick out of Ohio State, caught six passes for 87 yards. Posey is the better bet for a larger role coming into 2013 barring a change in personnel via the draft or free agency.
  	Longtime readers already know of my affinity for Mohamed Sanu, who established himself as a red zone option down the stretch before an injury sidelined him ahead of the playoffs. Teammate Marvin Jones, a rookie from California, will compete for a starting slot in 2013. Jones caught 18-of-32 targets in 2012, including 10 receptions (his lone touchdown) in the final two weeks of the regular season.
  	The Browns have an intriguing core of skill position players entering 2013. I can’t believe that I just wrote that line, but it’s true. We know about T-Rich and the short-lived fantasy brilliance of Josh Gordon as a downfield threat. I’ll turn my attention to another receiving option that popped onto the radar as a rookie. Travis Benjamin, a fourth-round pick from Miami, caught 18-of-37 targets for 298 yards with two touchdowns and demonstrated some big-play potential of his own. I’ll be curious to see how he’s used once the new coaching staff gets put in place. Could he pile up short receptions with some YAC? Benjamin’s a true longshot option in this category.
  	Rishard Matthews received an opportunity down the stretch in Miami because of an injury to Davone Bess. The rookie from Nevada caught eight passes in the final three games for 96 yards, including 20 and 30-yard receptions. Matthews finished the season with 11 receptions on 20 targets for 151 yards.
  	Nick Toon missed the entire 2012 season after undergoing surgery on his foot. He’ll return to the Saints for 2013 barring a setback and will try to crack the rotation in the explosive New Orleans offense.
  	A.J. Jenkins was a non-factor as a rookie despite getting selected in the first round of the NFL Draft by the 49ers. Jenkins was not targeted a single time this season. Michael Crabtree finally became the No. 1 option that everyone anticipated he could be, but questions remain in the rest of the San Francisco receiving corps. He’ll have a chance to battle Mario Manningham for reps in 2013.
  	And because I feel the need to put his sticker on the board, don’t forget about Vincent Brown of the Chargers. We were taunted and teased during the middle of the 2012 season about a possible return to action for Brown. Unfortunately, it did not materialize. With Danario Alexander working alongside Malcom Floyd on the perimeter, Brown should return as a PPR machine for the Chargers in 2013.

Each FOXSports.com fantasy contributor shared three-to-five fantasy baseball sleepers to keep an eye on heading into owners' fantasy baseball drafts.  Over the next two months, expect several updates to our positional fantasy baseball first base rankings.
  	
Ryan Howard, Phillies – The perils are clear-cut and genuine: rising age (turned 33 this offseason), an accretion of injuries and declining performance (a career-worst .219/.295/.423 slash last year). Yet Howard still possesses one of the more powerful strokes in the league, evidenced by 14 homers in 71 games, and his 27.5 home-run-to-fly-ball percentage was his best showing since 2008. Moreover, while hitting .280 is a pipedream, his 25.6 line-drive percentage states Howard’s putrid 2012 batting average was a product of bad luck. If Howard can notch 140 games, it’s easy to envision production along the lines of 30 jacks, 100 RBI and 80 runs. For the 20-something ranked first baseman, that’s one of the better selection values in your draft.
  	Ike Davis, Mets – It was a tale of two seasons for the Metropolitan first baseman:
  	Pre All-Star: 295 PA, 12 HR, 49 RBI, 30 R, .201/.271/.388
 	Post All-Star: 289 PA, 20 HR, 41 RBI, 36 R, .255/.346/.542
  	Davis’ 20 second-half home runs were the second-most in the Senior Circuit last season, and his 32 total long balls were tied for fifth-best in the league. Alas, most owners will see the seasonal slash of .227/.308/.462 and scoff. Make no mistake, home is not where the heart is for Davis, as he was stuck on the interstate in 77 games at Citi Field (.188 average) with only a third of his taters (11) coming in the Big Apple. Yet in 183 career games before 2012, Davis posted a .271 batting mark, meaning that average should see improvement in 2013. Replicating the round-tripper output might be a stretch, though turning just 26 years old in March, the best should be yet to come for Davis.
  	Adam LaRoche, Nationals – Seems to be an overriding sentiment that LaRoche’s 2012 feats (.271/.343/.510, 33 homers, 100 RBI, 76 runs) were an aberration. Yet, subtracting his injury-filled 2011 campaign, LaRoche submitted similar figures from 2008 to 2010, with an average harvest of 25 blasts, 89 ribbies, 73 runs and a line of .269/.339/.485. Better yet, projected to bat in the heart of Washington’s dynamic lineup, no reason to believe the run and RBI yield will lapse. With Michael Morse no longer suiting up in our nation’s capital, LaRoche has top-12 potential.
  	Adam Dunn, White Sox - Yes, the average is so abysmal that it negates his 16.2 walk rate. Yet, in formats where batting marks are not scored, it’s hard to ignore last year’s 41 homers, 96 RBI and 87 runs. Suppose their remains suspicion from Dunn’s infamous 2011 output (.159/.292/.277 in 122 games), yet the Windy City slugger’s rushed return from an early-season emergency appendectomy was probably the catalyst for this lethargic showing. Dunn’s mean output from 2004 to 2010 further illustrates this anomaly, with the Big Donkey brandishing a line of .253/.381/.533 l with 40 dingers, 101 RBI and 94 runs. Likely to be available near the end of your draft, Dunn offers great value for a backup first baseman or starting utility player.
  	
Brandon Belt, SF - I’ll apply the “post-hype” sleeper tag to Belt this season. The 24-year-old former fantasy “Next Big Thin” posted strong numbers in his first full season of play. Belt struggled during his 2011 introduction to San Francisco, but settled into a groove last year. He batted .275 with 40 extra-base hits and 56 RBI while stealing 12 bases. Most importantly, Belt picked up his production markedly in the second half of the season, boosting his batting average by 39 points. He also batted .315 at home, a full 78 points higher than his road mark.
  	Obviously, the huge power alleys in San Francisco will hold his power output down, but it’s clear that he’s just finding his stroke.
  	Brett Wallace, HOU - Wallace has long been on the fantasy radar, appearing on “sleeper” and “breakthrough” lists throughout minor league career. He produced solid numbers as a member of the Astros in 2012, his third taste of major league pitching. Wallace batted .253 with 20 extra-base hits and 24 RBI in 229 at-bats last season. Unfortunately, the former first-round pick by the Cardinals also struck out every 3.14 at-bats (insert your Pi joke here). Wallace generated a .372 BABIP for the Astros last season.
  	His high strikeout rate remains problematic, but Wallace is just now entering his power prime. Wallace will serve primarily as the DH for Houston this season while logging some at-bats at first base to spell Carlos Pena. I’m curious to see whether it finally clicks for Wallace.
  	Justin Morneau, MIN - Can you label a former league MVP as a true “sleeper?” I believe that based on the prevailing concern about Morneau’s health and his early draft status, he represents a “value” play, at a minimum. Therefore, I’ll take some liberty in adding Morneau to the back of this list. Morneau appeared in 134 games last season, producing 47 extra-base hits (19 home runs) with 77 RBI. His second-half batting average was 43 points higher than his first-half effort, and his power numbers stayed consistent.
  	Morneau enters the final year of his contract without the concerns of surgery and rehabilitation of the past several seasons. He’s a career .280 hitter with three 30-home run seasons on his resume.
  	Brandon Moss, OAK - I don’t discount the presence of Chris Carter and Daric Barton. I simply can’t dismiss a slugger that tore the cover off the ball in one-half of a season in Oakland. Moss slammed 39 extra-base hits, including 20 home runs, with 52 RBI in 265 at-bats. Granted, he also struck out 90 times (one per 2.94 at-bats). I believe you know where I’m headed with this analysis. Moss posted a ridiculous .440 BABIP to yield his .291 season batting average. He’s also expected to see at-bats in the outfield.
  	
Eric Hosmer, Royals - Sophomore slumps are nothing new in sports. Hosmer experienced his last season. In 24 more games played (compared to 2011), the first baseman produced fewer runs (65), hits (124), doubles (22), triples (2), home runs (14), and runs batted in (60). There are some whispers that a shoulder injury (rotator cuff, no surgery) was partially to blame for his paltry .232 batting average.
  	I’m interested to learn where Hosmer falls in 2013 fantasy baseball mock drafts. Once FOXSports.com’s mock draft engine is turned on (coming in February), I’ll be sure to dig into the data to learn his 2013 average draft position. Owners may be able to steal this first baseman in later rounds. Previous stats indicate this guy possesses the ability to hit .275 with 20 home runs, 80 RBI and 20 stolen bases.
  	Anthony Rizzo, Cubs - Bryan LaHair shocked everybody with his hot, All-Star-worthy start to the 2012 season. While the late bloomer mashed in the big leagues, the Cubbies’ first-base prospect, Anthony Rizzo, tore the cover off the ball at Triple-A Iowa. Rizzo, a top prospect dealt by the Red Sox and Padres, hit .342 with an OBP over .400 and 23 home runs in 70 games.
  	After LaHair’s in-season meltdown (he hit .202 after the All-Star break), Rizzo won the first-base gig and hit .285 with 15 home runs in 87 games the rest of the season. One glaring weakness is Rizzo against lefties. He hit .208 with an OBP of .243 against southpaws. Still, because of the hype and prospect love surrounding this guy, expect Rizzo to be selected as a middle-tier first basemen.
  	
   	Ike Davis, Mets - Fantasy owners want to love Ike Davis. Heading into the 2011 season, the Mets first basemen looked to build on his 2010 freshman resume of 73 runs, 19 home runs and 71 RBI, but only managed to play in 36 games due to an ankle injury.
  	Last spring training, Davis was diagnosed with the fungal infection known as “Valley Fever.” The good news was he only missed six regular-season games in 2012. The bad news was 240 of his at bats came at Citi Field where he hit .188 with a .277 OBP. Away from his home field, Davis hit 21 of his 32 home runs with a .262 batting average. Also worth noting that after posting a .201 BA in the first half of the season, Davis hit at a .255 clip during the second half with 20 home runs to finish the 2012 season.
  	Allen Craig, Cardinals - According to my rankings, there is a severe tier drop (pun intended) after Craig. He had an injury-filled 2012 season (knee surgery, hamstring injury, and chest discomfort) yet still managed 22 HRs, 92 RBI, and a .307 AVG in 119 games. Since 2010, Craig has improved in almost all statistical categories.
  	Yonder Alonso, Padres - First base is supposed to be a team’s power source, but it’s difficult when you play in an unfriendly home run ballpark. Petco Park surrendered .62 HRs per game (28th). He may have only finished with nine homers, but he tallied 39 doubles (fifth among other first basemen). Alonso also wrapped up 2012 with a .273 AVG (top 10 of first baseman).
  	If you look deeper into Yonder’s stats, you’ll also see that he’s a clutch hitter. His best batting average comes when there are runners on first (.343) or runners on second and third (.333). So, even though the Padres only scored 651 runs last year (about four runs per game), Alonso took advantage of his opportunities.
  	Chris Davis, Orioles - Yes, this is the same Chris Davis that is known for his strikeouts (both swinging and pitching). In 2009, he struck out every 2.6 at-bats (391 ABs). Since joining Baltimore, he has improved to a K/3 plate appearances (515 ABs). His organization also put a great deal of confidence into the slugger. In the offseason, they dealt Mark Reynolds to Cleveland and signed Davis to a one year $3.3 million contract.
  	Last season, Davis hit a career-high 33 home runs. That was second among first basemen and three more than Prince Fielder…in 23 fewer games. Worst case scenario, you’ll have a great relief pitcher to add to your bullpen.
  	Mat Gamel, Brewers - If patience was a fantasy baseball stat, Gamel would be an All-Star. Early in his career, he was stonewalled by Fielder. Last season, he finally gets a chance to play and injures his ACL. About a month ago, Gamel’s future was again in question. Would he get reps in the outfield? Would Corey Hart split time with him at 1B? Now with the news that Hart will miss three to four months after knee surgery, Gamel jumps up the rankings.
  	With Mat likely hitting behind Ryan Braun, Aramis Ramirez, and Jonathan Lucroy the deck is stacked in Gamel’s favor to shine. I wouldn’t stretch in the draft for him, but I’d keep Mat in the queue for a bench or utility role.
  	It’s tough to tab first basemen as sleepers. Since there are so many 25-homer bats at the position, you’re looking at 15-18 or them going in the top 150 picks. Still, here are a handful of second-tier and low-end guys that can provide late value on draft day.
  	Ike Davis, Mets – Ike, Ike, baby! Davis started slowly in 2012 due to an illness called Valley Fever, and hit just five homers in the first two months of the season. Then he hit 27 homers from June 12 through the end of the year, while posting an impressive .888 OPS in the second half. The main concern about Davis is his .227 batting average, but that was dragged down by some bad BABIP luck (.246 last season). There’s 40-homer upside here, and even though his BA won’t be great due to a high strikeout rate, it probably won’t hurt you. Davis has been going in Round 10 during early drafts at Mock Draft Central, and I suspect he’ll be on a few of my teams.
  	Kendrys Morales, Mariners – Morales missed most of 2010 and all of 2011 with an ankle injury suffered during a home run celebration. His return in 2012 was OK, as he batted .273 with 22 homers and a .787 OPS. But look a little closer, and you’ll see that Morales hit 14 homers with an .810 OPS in the second half. Great? No, but solid, and with a bit more upside than most when you’re looking for that backup corner infielder. Check Morales’ 2009 stats to see what’s possible.
  	Brandon Belt, Giants – Yeah, I know. It’s hard to pick a first baseman if you can’t expect at least 20 home runs, let alone 15. However, Belt is only 25, and his minor-league track record suggests more power than he’s shown so far in San Francisco. He’s no more than a late-round pick in standard mixed leagues, but he could give you a batting average north of .280 with 20 homers and 10 steals. I’m ready to give him one more chance.
  	Logan Morrison, Marlins – Morrison has been a disappointment as a big leaguer, showing only modest power with a .250 batting average, and his 2012 was cut short due to a knee injury that eventually required surgery. LoMo’s failure to reach his potential has made him a forgotten man in fantasy circles – he’s basically being ignored in early drafts (ADP: 262). You shouldn’t expect a breakout, but he’s still young, will bat third in the Marlins’ pitiful lineup, hit 23 homers in less than 500 at bats a couple of years ago, and also qualifies in the outfield. That versatility could help you in daily lineup leagues, and the bet here is that he’ll be a pleasant surprise.

I love the actual football games, of course, but I’d be lying if I didn’t admit to loving the anticipation, the buildup and ultimate culmination of the NFL Draft just as much.
  	
 	Now that the regular season is over, here's what NFL fans have to look forward to.
 
   	I’m a sick pup, but I know I’m not alone.
  	The NFL Draft is the sports world’s ultimate reality show. There’s deception, intrigue and surprise. There's joy, heartbreak and utter catastrophe. In the end, some young lives and some NFL teams are forever changed for the better. Others, however, take abrupt changes for the worse.
  	It has all the characters — the players, the agents, the coaches, the GMs, the members of the media, the owners and the fans. It has all the storylines.
  	One storyline is the draft stock of USC quarterback Matt Barkley. I listed Barkley as my top overall pick in the mock draft I did prior to the 2012 NFL season. I don't have him going in the first round of this mock draft. Why? If Barkley was at his best vs. Stanford in a Pac-12 shootout with Andrew Luck 2011, he was less than impressive in 2012. Interceptions, happy feet and several games in which he left a lot to be desired have me concerned about Barkley's ultimate landing spot in April's draft.
  	Though the Senior Bowl really kicked off draft season, the NFL Draft Scouting Combine is the unofficial “start” to my favorite time of the NFL year. It's when a guy like Barkley can shut "haters" like me up and solidify his place in the first round.
  	Before we touch down in Indianapolis next week, here’s a pre-Combine mock draft to sink your teeth into. Be sure to follow these 32 players next week in Indy.
  	Disagree with who I’ve got your team taking? Let me know about it. My email is PeterSchrager@gmail.com and I can be reached on Twitter at @Pschrags.
  	1. Kansas City Chiefs: Luke Joeckel, Offensive Tackle, Texas A&M
  	Andy Reid’s the new Sheriff in town and he’ll likely bring a new quarterback to Kansas City, too. I just don’t see it being a rookie. As you’ll hear a thousand times over the next few months, there’s no Andrew Luck or Robert Griffin III in this 2013 draft class. Joeckel is one of the most promising offensive tackles I’ve seen enter the league in the past five years. Very athletic. Nimble. He was fantastic in Mike Sherman’s scheme and even better in Kliff Klingsbury’s at Texas A&M. This may not inspire the fan base, but it’s a franchise cornerstone. There’s talent in Kansas City. Now, there’s an offensive guru as the head coach, too. They’re a veteran QB away from being relevant.
  	
  	Of all the head coaching hires this offseason, only one defensive mind got a gig. Enter Gus Bradley, the defensive coordinator for a good Seahawks team the past four years under Jim Mora and Pete Carroll, in Jacksonville. The Jaguars defense had a league-low 20 sacks in 2012. Werner’s a 6-4 junior with quickness and strength. His 13 sacks led the ACC in 2012 and he is the current NCAA active leader in sacks with 23.5 — and that’s with another year of eligibility left. If Bradley wants to rebuild the defense from the inside out, Werner’s a great place to start.
  	3. Oakland Raiders: Jarvis Jones, OLB, Georgia
  	Jones was a star in college at Georgia and may end up being the top player on my draft board come April. With a clean bill of health and considered 100 percent back from injury, he could still end up being the first player taken this year. Reggie McKenzie and Dennis Allen didn’t have a first round pick a season ago. This year, I think they’ll hit a home run with Jones at No. 3.
  	4. Philadelphia Eagles: Dee Milliner, Cornerback, Alabama
  	Michael Vick will be Chip Kelly’s starting quarterback in 2013. Will Nick Foles be Vick's backup? We’ll see how the Eagles proceed in the coming weeks, but regardless of who’s under center or the understudy to the guy who’s under center — the Eagles need to improve their defensive backfield. Nnamdi Asomugha’s best days are behind him, Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie can’t tackle, and the rest of the corners are just “guys.” Milliner isn’t just a “guy,” he’s the next in a long line of great Alabama corners to enter the NFL Draft. He’ll be a good fit in Philly — playing for whomever’s coaching them next season.
  	5. Detroit Lions: Barkevious Mingo, Linebacker, LSU
  	For all the great defensive talent on the roster in Detroit, the unit still didn’t get the job done in 2012. Ndamukong Suh and Nick Fairley had big 2012 seasons, but there’s room for another skilled pass rusher. At 6-4, 245 pounds, Mingo — the owner of the best name in college football — can play either the defensive end spot or at outside linebacker. A talented kid who has played in several big games, he could make an immediate impact in Detroit.
  	6. Cleveland Browns: Tyler Wilson, Quarterback, Arkansas
  	Yes, Cleveland drafted a quarterback in the first round a season ago. And sure, there are plenty of other pressing needs on the roster. But I’m very high on Wilson; I’m not very high on Brandon Weeden. Norv Turner won’t fail with grooming a quarterback and before Bobby Petrino’s motorcycle accident, the sky was the limit for this kid. Wilson is a 6-2, athletic, tough and smart guy who went through the ups and downs of last year in Fayetteville. He’s been through adversity and he’s never complained. He’s the No. 1 quarterback on my big board and I think others will join me after a week in Indianapolis. Cleveland and Wilson, to me, is a perfect match.
  	7. Arizona Cardinals: EJ Manuel, Quarterback, Florida State
  	Expecting to see Geno Smith here? You’re not alone. By the time we’re done with the Combine, I think EJ Manuel will leap over Smith, as well as Barkley, Tyler Bray and Ryan Nassib on everybody’s big board. Bruce Arians is going to bring a new and innovative offense to Arizona, and though the offensive line needs to be addressed, I think Arians goes with a quarterback and a fresh new start in the desert. Manuel has the height, the athleticism, the experience and the leadership to be a great quarterback in this league. Seeing all the new wrinkles, formations and possibilities he used in Indianapolis and what other coordinators did in Seattle, Washington, and San Francisco this season — I think Manuel is the guy in Arizona. For the Senior Bowl MVP, the sky’s the limit for former Seminole.
  	
  	In a draft considered very light on quarterback talent, don’t be shocked if at least three still go in the first 10 picks. Teams are desperate to find the signal caller of the future. New coach Doug Marrone coached Nassib at Syracuse and there will be a bit of an expectation for him to go the Mike Sherman/Ryan Tannehill route here. Buffalo has needs all over and there’s still some hope Ryan Fitzpatrick transforms back into his September-November 2011 form, but I think they go Geno. There’s a misconception that Smith is a running quarterback. He’s not. He’s a big pocket passer who played in cold weather in his first three years at WVU.
  	9. New York Jets: Star Lotulelei, DT, Utah
  	The “star” of this draft could be Lotulelei. See what I did there? Jets fans might not do flips over the selection of another defensive player in the first round, but Lotulelei is a steal at No. 9 overall. Compared favorably to Haloti Ngata, the 6-4, 320 pound junior college transfer was a stud at Utah the past two seasons. Married with two daughters, you won’t find him in any New York tabloids. He’s a relentless worker with no ego. That’d be a welcomed addition to the Jets locker room.
  	10. Tennessee Titans: Ezekiel Ansah, DE, BYU
  	A freakishly athletic defensive end, more than one NFL player personnel man has told me they see some Jason Pierre-Paul in Ansah. He’s raw, young and a naturally gifted athlete. Tennessee’s pass rush and run defense still needs to improve. Desperately. This is a bit of a roll of the dice, but the upside greatly outweighs the risk. Gregg Williams will teach him quickly and have him playing at his full potential, no doubt.
  	11. San Diego Chargers: Eric Fisher, OT, Central Michigan
  	Fisher is a surprisingly athletic 6-7, 310-pound tackle who can likely play either on the left or the right. The Chargers have a new head coach, a new offense and a new mindset coming into 2013. Giving Philip Rivers a reliable, big body to block for him on either the left or the right side of his offensive line is a wise move.
  	12. Miami Dolphins: Damontre Moore, DE, Texas A&M
  	A year after drafting Tannehill No. 8 overall, the Dolphins go back to the Texas A&M well with this pick, scooping up Moore, the athletic DE/OLB hybrid out of College Station. He has experience as an OLB in a 3-4 and as a 4-3 defensive end, and has excelled in both spots. Dolphins fans may be clamoring for an offensive weapon here and rightfully so. But I like Moore as a Dolphin if he’s still on the board at 12th overall.
  	13. Tampa Bay Buccaneers: Johnthan Banks, CB, Mississippi State
  	
   	Tampa Bay hit the jackpot with its first three draft picks a season ago, hitting home runs with Mark Barron, Doug Martin and Lavonte David. Banks is the second-best cornerback in this year’s draft. Tampa was stout against the rush this season and awful against the pass. With Ronde Barber now a safety and Aqib Talib playing in New England, there’s not much depth behind him at cornerback in Tampa. Banks is 6-1, 190 pounds and can match up with receivers a bit bigger than him. A solid pick here for the Baby Bucs.
  	14. Carolina Panthers: Cordarrelle Patterson, WR, Tennessee
  	The top wide receiver on my big board. I’m sending Patterson — the 6-3, 205 pound wideout — to Carolina. Cam Newton and Steve Smith have been a great 1-2 duo for two seasons. It’s time Newton has a big, young wideout with No. 1-receiver potential in Charlotte. A JUCO star at Hutchinson Community College in Kansas, Patterson had a breakout year in 2012 when No. 1 wideout Da’Rick Rogers was unceremoniously dismissed from the team last summer. Patterson’s numbers — 46 catches, five touchdowns — won’t wow you, but his athletic ability will. I hate the term “tremendous upside,” but Patterson has … well, tremendous upside. This one’s a bit of a gamble, but if Charlotte is going to keep Newton for the long-term future, it has to give him some receivers. Here’s a potential true No. 1 for him to grow old with.
  	15. New Orleans Saints: Dion Jordan, OLB, Oregon
  	The Saints will make the move to a 3-4 defense under Rob Ryan and will quickly try to erase any memories of how the unit performed in 2012. Setting the record for most yards given up in an NFL season, the New Orleans D lacked any pass rushing bite a season ago. I was a big fan of Aldon Smith coming out of college. Jordan reminds me a lot of Smith. I’ve seen him going in the top 10 of some mock drafts. It’s possible. If he slips to 15, New Orleans should pounce.
  	16. St. Louis Rams: Keenan Allen, WR, California
  	Though the Rams spent an early second-round pick on Appalachian State wideout Brian Quick in 2012 and just signed troubled wideout Titus Young off waivers, I think they’ll go with another wide receiver in 2013. At 6-3 and 210 pounds, Allen has the size to be a reliable go-to No. 1 in the pros. He was a star at Cal despite anemic quarterback play. Sam Bradford has a lot to prove in 2013 and the NFC West is arguably the league’s toughest division. Adding a weapon like Allen will give him the best chance to succeed.
  	17. Pittsburgh Steelers: Manti Te’o, LB, Notre Dame
  	Will the bizarre Internet dating scam that dominated news for two weeks impact Te’o’s draft stock? Perhaps. Put him on the right team, in the right defense, and in the right locker room and it’ll all be an afterthought once actual football is being played. I can’t imagine a better place for Te'o than Pittsburgh. Larry Foote’s played well in the middle, but the Steelers could use a blue-chip inside linebacker for their aging linebacker corps. Jason Worilds, LaMarr Woodley, and Lawrence Timmons are going to be three-fourths of that unit for years to come. Te’o would be a great final piece to that puzzle. On a worse team in a less structured organization, Te’o could struggle. In Pittsburgh? If he can play, he’ll be just fine.
  	
  	Though you won’t read this many places, I think Tony Romo had his best year as a pro in 2012. He did so playing behind a terrible offensive line. Doug Free hasn’t been the player the Cowboys thought he’d be when they rewarded him with a big contract and Tyron Smith seemed to be called for a false start on every other play from scrimmage this season. Injuries stung, but there needs to be more good, young linemen protecting Romo. Warmack can play guard or center and he can play them in the big leagues right now. Not as sexy as some of Jerry’s usual picks, but a solid one.
  	19. New York Giants: Shariff Floyd, DT, Florida
  	Floyd has been slated anywhere from the top five to the second round, but I think he’d be a good fit in New York, where he can replace the recently released Chris Canty. He occupies blockers and though listed at 305 pounds, he is likely a bit heavier. He can step up and contribute right away for the Giants in 2013. Marvin Austin can’t seem to stay healthy and though there’s still hope for the former North Carolina star, Floyd could end up being the guy for New York. The Combine will be a telling time. He’s one of those guys whose stock can skyrocket after a good week in Indy.
  	20. Chicago Bears: Lane Johnson, OT, Oklahoma
  	Jay Cutler has one year left on his current contract. If he’s going to even come close to his full potential as a pro, he needs an offensive line blocking for him. The pass protection wasn’t just laughable this season — it was miserable. Johnson stole the show at the Senior Bowl and is expected to raise even more eyebrows in Indianapolis next week. Marc Trestman’s going to be creative, different and successful in building an offense around Cutler’s talents. It’ll be a waste if the offensive line plays like it did in 2012. Johnson could be a great addition to a line that needs tons of help.
  	21. Cincinnati Bengals: Alex Okafor, DE, Texas
  	Defensive end Michael Johnson had a big year in 2012, but is set to become a free agent this spring. Okafor would be a great fit in Mike Zimmer’s 4-3 scheme. Though not the name his teammate Jackson Jeffcoat was at Texas, Okafor went from a special teams standout in his freshman year to a defensive force in his last two. Capable of playing DT or DE, he’d be a nice addition to an already dangerous Bengals defensive line.
  	22. St. Louis Rams (From Washington Redskins): Kyle Long, OT, Oregon 
  	Who?! Oh, Chris Long’s brother and Howie Long’s son, that’s who. Kyle Long is raw, having just made the move from baseball to football in the past few years, but the sky is the limit for the next in a legendary football family. Is this too soon for a guy who didn’t dominate in college? Not at all. At 6-6 and 310 pounds, Kyle is considered the most athletic of the family, a claim made by Howie and Chris. St. Louis has the benefit of two first-round picks. I think they go wideout with its first one and roll the dice on the second one. I might be the only person with Long in their first round, but I love the idea of St. Louis adding Chris’s younger brother to the locker room.
  	
  	The highly touted Juco transfer became Georgia’s 3-4 defensive cog in the middle in 2012. Huge, fairly nimble and full of potential, he may work better in a 3-4 than Minnesota’s 4-3. Either scheme works, though. Jenkins can’t play every down, but — think Terrence Cody in Baltimore — when he’s on the field, he can make a difference.
  	24. Indianapolis Colts: Jesse Williams, DT, Alabama
  	Coach Arians goes to Arizona, but Pep Hamilton — Luck’s former offensive coordinator at Stanford — replaces Arians as the new Indianapolis offensive coordinator. Regardless of who’s running the offense, I think Indy goes defense in the first round this year. The Colts drafted offensive players with 11 of their 12 draft picks a season ago. Now, they go D. A big DT who can man the nose tackle spot in Indy’s 3-4, Williams is a versatile Australian-born big man who anchors college football’s most feared defensive unit. At 6-3, 320 pounds, he’d be a nasty addition to Indy’s defensive line.
  	25. Seattle Seahawks: Tavon Austin, WR, West Virginia
  	Russell Wilson silenced all of his critics who thought he was too small, didn’t have a big enough arm and wasn’t worthy of a third-round pick. Austin would be an incredible addition to the Seattle offense. With the new free-access receivers getting off the line, dynamic slot guys like Austin become all the more dangerous. He’s a lightning rod. This is Percy Harvin Part II. Sidney Rice, Golden Tate and Austin would make for quite a trio.
  	26. Green Bay Packers: Alec Ogletree, OLB, Georgia
  	The Packers spent their first six draft picks of 2012 on defensive players and yet, they still have a hole at the outside linebacker position opposite of Clay Matthews. Ogletree’s the real deal and the kind of pass rusher Dom Capers covets. Ogletree can get to the quarterback. A converted safety, he’s played both the inside and outside linebacker positions, too. This may be a bit higher than others have the uber-athletic talent going, but his stock will only improve after the Combine.
  	27. Houston Texans: Terrance Williams, WR, Baylor
  	
   	What was made glaringly obvious towards the end of Houston’s 2012 season was that the Texans didn’t have a dangerous second threat at receiver. Andre Johnson had a strong season, but the offense won’t take the next step if one of the young guys — Devier Posey, Lestar Jean, someone — doesn’t make the leap next year. Williams, a 6-2 speedster, led the nation in receiving yards despite working with a new quarterback and without Kendall Wright. Good fit, here.
  	28. Denver Broncos: Eddie Lacy, RB, Alabama
  	Crimson Tide running backs have gone in the first round of the last two NFL Drafts. Add another to the list with Lacy. In 14 games last season, Lacy ran for 1,322 yards and scored 17 touchdowns. He also caught 22 passes and scored two receiving touchdowns. The Broncos offense went limp in the AFC Divisional Round game vs. Baltimore when Knowshon Moreno went down. Lacy is a sturdy back who can deliver every down and punch it in on the goal line. Denver has plenty of running backs on the roster, but none with the future of Lacy.
  	29. New England Patriots: Matt Elam, S, Florida
  	The Patriots defensive backfield improved greatly over the second half of the season, but still needs more playmakers. Elam was a highlight reel regular in his time with the Gators, but he also has the fundamentals down. NFL safety Abe Elam’s younger brother, Matt is a high-energy, high-impact guy. He’s 5-10, 210 pounds and can play against the run and the pass. Bill Belichick has long been a fan of Florida Gators (see Brandon Spikes, Jermaine Cunningham, Aaron Hernandez). Elam’s another highly coveted Urban Meyer recruit.
  	30. Atlanta Falcons: Xavier Rhodes, CB, Florida State
  	Rhodes is a 6-1, 220-pound big corner who flirted with leaving school early a year ago. He had a strong 2012. He’s a borderline first-, second-round talent. The Falcons took another flashy cornerback out of FSU a few years back in the first round. His name was Deion Sanders. That’s not a fair comparison. Sorry, Xavier.
  	
  	Free agent Delanie Walker is likely going to end up playing elsewhere in 2013, serving as a No. 1 tight end. The thought of Ertz — Stanford’s top target in 2012 — reuniting with Greg Roman and Jim Harbaugh is a scary one. Listed at 6-6 and 250 pounds, Ertz is big, athletic and has reliable hands. Compared often to Jason Witten, this could be a steal at 31.
  	32. Baltimore Ravens: Sheldon Richardson, DT, Missouri
  	The Baltimore defense will have to reload this offseason. Cary Williams, Ed Reed, Paul Kruger and Dannell Ellerbe could all be playing elsewhere next season and we know Ray Lewis isn’t coming back. Teams ran all over the Ravens during the regular season, though the team obviously picked it up in the playoffs. Richardson is a 295-pound run stuffer who can get to the quarterback. He had 10 tackles for a loss and was an All-SEC performer in 2012. He’s not going to single-handedly replace any of those potential departures, but he’s a very good piece to the rebuilding puzzle.

As you step through the red side door at Starrett City Boxing Club, the smell hits you like a glove full of plaster. The odor of sweat, blood and hot air fill the cavernous, cement-walled room, located underneath a parking garage at a housing complex in Brooklyn.
  	
 	These babes can't get enough ringside action. 	 			Ringside cheerleaders
 		 			Bantamweight babes
 		 			Best ring girls
 	
   	The folks who call this facility home will tell you that’s the scent of hard work, and as you look at some of the fighters this place has produced, many of them world champs, you can’t help but think that maybe they’re onto something.
  	The list of boxers who got their start at Starrett City is long and accomplished: Mean Joe Green, Monte Barrett, Shannon Briggs, Travis Simms, Luis Collazo, Curtis Stevens, Sadam Ali, Will Rosinsky, Dimitry Salita, Jaidon Codrington — all products of Jimmy O’Pharrow’s gym.
  	So is Danny Jacobs, better known here as The Golden Child.
  	Jacobs grew up in Brownsville, the neighborhood that bred former world champs Mike Tyson and Riddick Bowe, and started working with trainer Victor Roundtree at Starrett City at age 14. After a quick ascent up the amateur ranks, Jacobs made his professional debut in 2007 as a 20-year-old on the undercard of a Floyd Mayweather-Ricky Hatton fight in Las Vegas.
  	In December 2009, ESPN named Jacobs — then a perfect 18-0 — its prospect of the year, and seven months later Jacobs took a 20-0 mark into his first title fight, a WBO middleweight bout against undefeated Russian Dmitry Pirog. Jacobs would lose that fight, in large part, he says, because the death of his grandmother earlier that week had taken his focus off the match.
  	Jacobs knew his career had been dealt a major blow as a result of the knockout, and he was prepared for a difficult climb back to the top of the boxing world. But even he couldn’t have known how treacherous the journey would be. Because shortly after the loss to Pirog, Jacobs learned he wouldn’t just be fighting for another title shot — he would be fighting for his life.
  	Weird feeling in leg
  	
   	Jacobs rebounded from the loss with two wins — in December 2010 and in March 2011 — and his career seemed to be getting back on track. But in late March, Jacobs returned from a week-long Middle East USO tour with fellow boxers Oscar De La Hoya, Adrien Broner and Seth Mitchell and noticed a weird feeling in his left leg.
  	It wasn’t so much that the leg hurt, but it felt weak. Soon, Jacobs began to feel similar symptoms in his right leg, and before long getting around had become difficult. Jacobs often found himself tripping over his own feet when he walked. Doctors told him it was likely a side effect of a pinched nerve.
  	“I thought it was something like sciatica, where it could be easily fixed,” Jacobs said. “So in my mind, day to day, I didn’t feel like it was a big deal. I was even joking about it with my girlfriend. I’d run and my legs are all over the place while I’m running, so we’re making fun of it, not knowing that I’m dying.”
  	In a matter of weeks Jacobs’ condition deteriorated into a dire situation. By early May, running and training were out of the question, as Jacobs, then 24, needed a cane or a walker just to get around.
  	Doctors instructed Jacobs to check in with his godmother, Dorothea Perry, on a daily basis as they continued to monitor his situation. But one night in May 2011, Jacobs left his phone in the car. He decided to wait until morning to retrieve it, not wanting to put additional strain on his ever-weakening lower body to go downstairs. When Jacobs woke up the next day, he couldn’t move his legs at all.
  	Meanwhile, Perry, having not heard from Jacobs, began to worry. She tried calling, but Jacobs didn’t pick up, so after a doctor’s appointment of her own, Perry decided to drive around Park Slope, scouring Jacobs’ neighborhood in search of his apartment building.
  	  
    	Perry had been to Jacobs’ apartment only once, at night, and couldn’t remember exactly where he lived, but her instincts eventually led her to the right place. She made her way to Jacobs’ apartment and knocked on the door with no idea what she’d see when it opened.
  	“I heard the knock and I thought, ‘Somebody came to save me,’ ” Jacobs said. “I didn’t know who it was, but I knew no one had heard from me for a very long time. When I realized it was her, I was like, ‘Thank God,’ but she just looked at me and just said, ‘Oh, my God.’ ”
  	Jacobs couldn’t feel his feet and even when he could get upright, it was only a matter of time before he fell back down. He had been scheduled to see a neurologist the next day, but this couldn’t wait. Perry rushed him to the ER.
  	“It’s so hard to describe, to see this young, healthy athlete be reduced to crawling on the floor and not being able to stand on his own feet,” said Perry, who had reconnected with Jacobs after a falling out more than four years earlier. “He looked like he had been crippled all his life. It was incredible, and it was heartbreaking. He’s not my child, but he was my child at that moment.
  	“When he left from my presence, I broke down and I was just crying, one of those really deep cries where you’re like, ‘Where do the tears keep coming from?’ I remember telling my mother, ‘You just don’t understand what I’m looking at. How could this happen to him?’ ”
  	Jacobs said he was calm when he arrived at Brooklyn Hospital, but panic truly started to set in when he couldn’t feel doctors administering an epidural shot. Then the MRIs and other test results came back, and panic turned to fear.
  	
 	Want to follow what's going on in the ring? We've got everything you need with news and analysis, schedules, photos, video, current champions and more from around the boxing world.
 
   	“As we went through them all, I just kept thinking, ‘It can’t get any worse, it can’t get any worse,’ and then it got worse, and then it got worse again,” Jacobs said. “From everyone’s face, I knew something wasn’t right. I knew the first doctors were wrong, and I knew this was something life-threatening.”
  	The diagnosis was osteosarcoma, a type of bone cancer that had manifested itself in the form of a small tumor wrapped around his spine. Had Jacobs let the tumor linger a few more days, doctors said it might have killed him. The quarter-sized lump caused extensive nerve damage and led to the partial paralysis in his legs, and it had to come out. So Jacobs underwent two procedures — one to cut off the blood supply to the tumor and another, on May 18, 2011, to remove it.
  	After the second surgery, Jacobs’ tumor was gone, but the battle was only just beginning.
  	Re-teaching his body
  	Becoming paralyzed was difficult for Jacobs, but it wasn’t the hard part — not compared to the physical and mental struggle of re-teaching his body how to do all the things it once could.
  	The surgery forced Jacobs to wear a large back brace for months, and his pain was worse without the tumor than it was with it. As Jacobs started rehab, he found that immobility had left him a shell of the physical specimen he used to be. All of a sudden, this would-be world champ couldn’t lift an 8-pound dumbbell.
  	“Rehab was harder than some of the boxing camps I’ve had to go through as a professional boxer,” Jacobs said. “I remember being in the hospital two or three days after surgery, when the pain was at its worst, and in my mind, I felt like I just gave up.”
  	That frustration took a toll, not just on Jacobs, but also on his girlfriend, Natalie Stevens. The two had been dating since 2005, and she was one of his primary caretakers during his recovery. As a result, she saw the best and worst of the process as it unfolded in front of her.
  	
   	“I was one of the biggest supporters that he had, so whenever he wanted to snap at me or whenever he wanted to cry, whenever he fell, whenever he was frustrated because he couldn’t use the bathroom alone, couldn’t take a shower alone, I had to take that,” Stevens said. “It definitely was a very bumpy road . . . but we got through it.”
  	After two months in the hospital, Jacobs returned home, and within three weeks, he was back at Starrett City, doing what he could to get into a routine at the gym.
  	Jacobs was hitting the heavy bag before he could stand up and sparring before he could walk, but even as he continued to improve, many doubted he’d ever get back into the ring — the doctors who told him he should give up boxing foremost among them. The staff at Winthrop University Hospital, where Jacobs received radiation treatments, told him he shouldn’t fight again, but he ignored their advice.
  	“Boxing was all I’d known since I was 14 years old, and for someone to say this can’t happen anymore, I couldn’t process it,” Jacobs said. “So that was my motivation to get better, because I wanted to get back in that ring. I missed being there; I missed being in the spotlight. I lived for this, and boxing was what, ultimately, made me happy, so to take my happiness away, I couldn’t live with it.”
  	By January 2012, the pain in Jacobs’ back was gone, and though the nerve damage was only just starting to heal — Jacobs estimates it was about 20 percent of the way along — he could walk normally. It was then that he set a goal to return to the ring in time for the first fight at Barclays Center. There was a time when Jacobs was supposed to headline that evening, but at that point, he would have just been happy just to be on the card at all.
  	
   	Jacobs continued to rehab over the next eight months, and he was there for the arena’s ribbon cutting in September. On Oct. 20, he finally got to fight for real, registering a first-round knockout of Josh Luteran in his first professional bout in nearly two years.
  	“I told him, ‘Remember when you were in the hospital and you asked me, ‘Why me?’ ” Stevens recalled asking Jacobs. “This is exactly why. Now he’s not going to be known as a kid with a great talent who can just knock people out. Now he’s known as the man who fought the biggest fight of his life and is an inspiration for the whole entire universe. This is why that happened to him.”
  	Said Jacobs: “It was one of the greatest moments of my life.”
  	Comeback is for others, too
  	There’s a small tattoo on the left side of Jacobs’ chest, in the shape of a ribbon. Jacobs calls it his badge, and he points to it when he talks about the impact his story has had on others since he overcame cancer. Over the last 18 months, he has come to learn that his comeback is about more than just him.
  	“I feel like I represent so much more than just getting back to boxing,” Jacobs said. “I represent so many different people in this world hurt by this sickness. I know someone who has cancer, you know someone who has cancer or who has been affected by it. When you go to war, you do it to represent your country, and I felt like I was going to war representing so many patients and their families.”
  	Jacobs has gotten support from every direction over the past 18 months — from Facebook friends and Twitter followers, fans, old pals and neighbors. He’s gotten letters from all over the country, and he speaks to kids about his story.
  	“When fellow cancer patients or people who have family with cancer come to me, we talk about it,” Jacobs said, “and that’s when I really feel good.”
  	But Jacobs also has found his battle to be an inspiration to people closer to home — particularly his son, Nathaniel. Nathaniel turns 4 on Monday, and there will be a boxing-themed birthday party at Starrett City to celebrate. Stevens says Nathaniel idolizes his dad, wakes up each morning asking to watch boxing movies on Netflix and prefers doing jumping jacks and pushups to normal “kid stuff.”
  	Nathaniel doesn’t fully understand what his dad has been through, but someday he will, and Jacobs takes pride in the role model he’s become.
  	
   	“I know one day he’ll look back and say, ‘My dad was a champ, and my dad never gave up,’ ” Jacobs said. “All those emotions made that ring walk (at Barclays Center) like cloud nine. I floated to the ring.”
  	Added Stevens: “It’s definitely going to make him proud to know that his father is not only a great person, but an actual warrior — not because he can go and physically hurt a person in the ring, but because he can overcome something like this, remain positive about it and use it as a voice to give hope to other people who are going through it.”
  	Back in the ring Saturday
  	Back at Starrett City, Jacobs is preparing for his next fight, Saturday at Madison Square Garden against Chris Fitzpatrick, on the Miguel Cotto-Austin Trout undercard.
  	Wearing a shirt that looked like a garbage bag and bright pink boxing shoes, Jacobs jumped rope for 20 minutes, working up a good sweat before slipping on a T-shirt and getting into the ring with another trainer, Andre Rozier, as Roundtree watched from the edge of the mat.
  	Rozier and Jacobs sparred for almost 45 minutes, with Jacobs firing jab after powerful jab before taking a quick water break and starting right back up again. Each sparring session ending with series of rapid-fire, rhythm punches that went until someone quit swinging. Jacobs was never the one to say uncle, and that’s how it’s been ever since he made it his goal to fight again.
  	“I’m an eternal optimist, and at one point, I said that if he’s going to give it a shot, we’ll all push and make sure he gets there,” Rozier said. “If we give him positive reinforcement, he should rise to another plateau. Will it be the plateau that he was at before? That has yet to be seen.”
  	Jacobs is 25 now, and he still isn’t close to where he wants to be. He hopes to soon get back to fighting tougher competition, and he hopes a title fight is in his future. But even if Jacobs never gets back to the level he was once at, that he’s in the ring at all still feels like something of a victory.
  	“I’m just looking to perform and get in there and have fun,” Jacobs said. “I’m not trying to go and stress myself out too much; I’m looking to enjoy every day as if it was my last. … (When) I was in that hospital, I remember sitting and looking out the window, just looking at people at the bus stop, and that was the highlight of my day. So it really made me more appreciative of every day that I have.”
  	You can follow Sam Gardner on Twitter or e-mail him at samgardnerfox@gmail.com.

After years of denials, insults and lawsuits both implying the contrary and flat-out admonishing those who argued otherwise, disgraced cyclist Lance Armstrong has finally admitted what many in and around the sport assumed all along:
  	
   	He used performance-enhancing drugs throughout his illustrious career, including during his unprecedented run of seven consecutive Tour de France championships from 1999 through 2005.
  	The 41-year-old testicular cancer survivor, who became one of the world’s most famous, inspirational and well-paid athletes as he grew to be the face of cycling and his Livestrong Foundation during the early 2000s, confessed to the decade-plus of widespread doping — the confession coming during the first part of a nationally televised interview with Oprah Winfrey that aired Thursday night. Part two of the special airs Friday night at 9 ET on OWN.
  	“This story was so perfect for so long,” Armstrong told Winfrey, looking back on his rise to success following his 1996 cancer diagnosis. “You overcome the disease, you win the Tour de France seven times, you have a happy marriage, you have children — it’s just a mythic, perfect story, and it wasn’t true.”
  	Winfrey began Thursday’s portion of the show with a series of no-nonsense, yes-or-no questions, during which Armstrong confirmed he illegally used a number of banned substances, including erythropoietin (EPO), testosterone, cortisone and human growth hormone, and he took part in blood doping and blood transfusions — doing so during each of his seven Tour wins.
  	When asked whether he could have won seven consecutive Tour de France titles without doping, Armstrong said, “Not in my view” — indicating it wasn’t possible because of the rampant use of PEDs during the era in which he won all his titles.
  	For most of the interview, Armstrong defended his actions with claims that doping was an epidemic among cyclists — though he declined multiple times to discuss specific details or any particular riders’ drug use.
  	
   	“I don’t want to accuse anybody else. I don’t want to necessarily talk about anybody else,” Armstrong said. “I made the decisions, those are my mistakes, and I’m sitting here today to acknowledge that.”
  	At one point during the interview, Armstrong told Winfrey it was “scary” that he didn’t feel he was doing anything wrong by doping — which he admitted started in the 1990s, “before the EPO generation.”
  	He said it was “even scarier” that he didn’t feel bad about it, and that the “scariest” aspect of his PED use was that he didn’t feel in any way that he was cheating by using the banned substances.
  	But Armstrong, who wore a blazer, dress shirt and boots, was never particularly contrite, and his outward emotion never really changed throughout the 90-minute special.
  	“I’m not sure this is an acceptable answer, but that’s like saying we have to have air in our tires or we have to have water in our bottles,” Armstrong said. “In my view, (doping) was part of the job. ... I didn’t invent the culture, but I didn’t try to stop the culture, and that’s my mistake. That’s what I have to be sorry for.”
  	When pressed by Winfrey about whether he, as the leader of his US Postal Service-sponsored team, pressured other riders on his team to use PEDs — one of many accusations levied against him as the alleged ringleader of the team’s doping strategy — Armstrong repeatedly denied making any such threats, though he acknowledged to Winfrey on multiple occasions that he could understand how riders could have felt that a threat was implied.
  	“I guess I could have (forced teammates to use PEDs), but I never did,” Armstrong said. “There was a level of expectation. We expected guys to be fit, to be strong, to perform, but I certainly didn’t (make threats). ... Even if I don’t say it, but I do it, and I’m the leader of the team, you’re leading by example, and that’s a problem.”
  	
   	In addition to saying, essentially, that he simply did what everyone else was doing, Armstrong pointed to a number of other motivations for his unabashed PED use. One, he said, was the fighting spirit that motivated him during his battle with cancer, which lasted from October 1996 to February 1997.
  	“That process turned me into a person — it was truly win at all costs,” Armstrong said. “When I was diagnosed, I said, ‘I will do anything I need to do to survive,’ and that’s good. And I took that attitude, that ruthless and relentless and win-at-all-costs attitude into cycling, and that’s bad.”
  	Armstrong, too, blamed the drug use on the pressure to live up to his larger-than-life story.
  	“Behind that story, behind that picture was momentum — whether it was fans or media, it just gets going,” Armstrong said. “And I lost myself in all that. I couldn’t handle it, and I was used to controlling everything in my life. I’ve controlled every outcome in my life.”
  	Armstrong also indicated to Winfrey that, during the height of his success, there was little motivation to stop doping because doping was so easy to get away with during that era — largely because PED testing wasn’t as developed as it is now, and it was only performed at actual races.
  	“Drug testing has changed, it’s evolved,” Armstrong said. “There wasn’t that much out-of-competition testing, so you’re not going to get caught, because you’re clean at the races. … (Then) two things changed … the shift to out-of-competition testing and the biological passport. It really worked.”
  	Armstrong denied ever doping during his return to cycling and the Tour de France —a third-place finish in 2009 and a 23rd-place finish in 2010, his final Tour race — but said that his comeback was what led to his story eventually unraveling. After Armstrong returned to the sport, he faced a federal investigation, which began in 2010. That investigation was dropped in early 2012, and at that point, Armstrong felt he had finally put his past in the past.
  	
   	“It’s hard to define victory, but I thought I was out of the woods,” Armstrong said of the Department of Justice decision, which Winfrey likened to wolves leaving his door. “And those are some serious wolves.”
  	But Armstrong still had to combat incriminating statements —made both publicly and under oath and to the US Anti-Doping Agency — from former teammates and associates, including Tyler Hamilton, Frankie Andreu, George Hincapie and Floyd Landis, among others.
  	During the Winfrey interview, Armstrong referred to Hincapie’s statements regarding Armstrong’s drug use to be what sealed his fate. Hincapie was the only rider who raced on Armstrong’s team during each of his Tour de France wins.
  	“If George didn’t say it, they’d say, ‘Well George didn’t say it, so I’m sticking with Lance,’ ” Armstrong said. “I don’t fault George at all with that, but listen, George is the most credible voice in all of this. He did all seven Tours. … George knows this story better than anybody.”
  	In June 2012, before Hincapie’s statements came to light, the USADA officially charged Armstrong with doping throughout his career. On Aug. 20, 2012, a federal judge dismissed a lawsuit filed by Armstrong against the USADA. Three days later, Armstrong dropped his fight against the USADA, and in October, the organization released the details of its investigation, which led to the International Cycling Union's stripping him of his Tour titles.
  	“It’s impossible to say, (but he would have had) much better chances,” Armstrong said when asked if he would have gotten away with it — or at least not been forced to publicly admit his guilt — had he not returned.
  	
   	“But I didn’t. … I just assumed the stories would continue for a long time. This isn’t an issue of new stories or interviews. That’s not why we’re sitting here.”
  	While he made many admissions to Winfrey, Armstrong also denied conspiring with officials of the International Cycling Union to cover up a reported positive test at the 2001 Tour de Suisse with a donation to the Union, and also sidestepped questions about Italian doctor Michele Ferrari, who has been banned for life from cycling and reportedly was the person to educate Armstrong about doping from the beginning.
  	"There are people in this story that are good people," Armstrong said. "We’ve all made mistakes, and there are people in this story that are not monsters and they're not toxic and they're not evil. And I viewed Michele Ferrari as a good man and a smart man, and I still do."
  	Armstrong also said he played no role in the Justice Department's dropping the federal case — “That’s very difficult to influence,” he quipped.
  	He also said he’d begun to reach out to those he had wronged — including Frankie Andreu's wife, Betsy, who testified in 2006 that Armstrong used endurance boosting EPO while undergoing cancer treatment in 1996 — plus London Sunday Times reporter David Walsh and former masseuse Emma O'Reilly.
  	Armstrong had already apologized to members of his cancer-fighting Livestrong Foundation, from which he was forced to resign as his case unraveled. The foundation issued a statement late Thursday seemingly distancing itself from Armstrong, the cyclist, but praising his work as an advocate for cancer research.
  	"Even in the wake of our disappointment," it said, "we also express our gratitude to Lance as a survivor for the drive, devotion and spirit he brought to serving cancer patients and the entire cancer community."
  	It seems likely that the civil suits will begin to pile up now that Armstrong has admitted his guilt — he’s already facing at least two — and the veracity of Armstrong’s apology tour and his level of genuine concern is certainly up for debate and will be discussed at length in the days, months and years to come. But Armstrong said that now that he has come clean, he’s dedicated to restoring his shattered public image.
  	“These are people that supported me, believed in me, believed me — not just believed in me, but believed what I was saying — and they have every right to feel betrayed, and it’s my fault,” Armstrong said. “I will spend the rest of my life ... trying to earn back trust and apologize to people for the rest of my life.”
  	As part of his reintegration into the public eye, Armstrong said he’d be interested in pursuing efforts to help clean up the sport of cycling, which has been largely discredited due to the amount of PED use — and much of the credit for that uptick in cheating has been pinned on Armstrong, himself.
  	“I love cycling. I really do, and I say that knowing that I sound like people will see me as somebody that is disrespecting the event, the sport, the color yellow, the jersey, and I did,” Armstrong said. “I disrespected the rules, regardless of what anybody says of the generation. That was my choice.
  	“But if we can — and I stand on no moral platform here, it’s certainly not my place to say, ‘Hey guys, let’s clean up cycling’ — if there was an effort to (clean up cycling), if there was a truth and reconciliation commission — and I can’t call for that; I’ve got no cred — if they have it, and I’m invited, I’ll be the first man at the door.”
  	USADA chief Travis Tygart, who originally pursued the case that would eventually take down Armstrong, indicated that Armstrong's national TV confession was just the beginning of his road back.
  	"His admission that he doped throughout his career is a small step in the right direction," Tygart said in a statement. "But if he is sincere in his desire to correct his past mistakes, he will testify under oath about the full extent of his doping activities.”

When you think of Minnesota Lynx forward Seimone Augustus, what's the first thing that comes to mind? Superstar? Scorer? Olympic gold medalist? Winner? All of those would be true, but there's a secret to Seimone's success. Staying in shape.    
 
Alana Beard, Los Angeles Sparks
  Even though she was the second overall pick in the 2004 WNBA Draft, Mystics guard Alana Beard has lived up to all of the expectations. She just continues to get better every season and has grown into a bona fide All-Star. So just how does this top athlete keep her body in shape?     
 
Rebekkah Brunson, Minnesota Lynx
  Even though Brunson earned her first All-Star Game appearance in 2007, success didn't happen overnight. To the contrary, the realization of her potential was the culmination of years and years of hard work on the court, as well as dedication off it.     
 
Tamika Catchings, Indiana Fever
  Fever forward Tamika Catchings, a two-time Defensive Player in the Year, has been called the most complete player by teammates and opponents alike and continues to get better. Her work ethic is second to none, and when she is not conducting clinics around the world, this perennial MVP candidate is in the gym herself.     
 
Katie Douglas, Indiana Fever
  Sun guard Katie Douglas had the best season of her WNBA career in 2006 and even earned Most Valuable Player honors in the 2006 All-Star Game at Madison Square Garden. The First Team All-Defense honoree openly credits getting into better shape for her ongoing improvement and includes working out as an essential part of her routine.     
 
Candice Dupree, Phoenix Mercury
  Chicago Sky forward Candice Dupree became the face of franchise essentially overnight, as the first ever draft pick for an expansion franchise is often likely to do. But beyond the hype of the sixth overall selection in the 2006 WNBA Draft, Dupree blossomed into an All-Star right away, and also understands the role of health and fitness in her life as a vital cog in her ultimate longevity.    
 
  Silver Stars guard Becky Hammon just completed her ninth season in the WNBA, but many would argue that, at age 30, shes just entering the prime of her career. How does the All-Star stay in such phenomenal shape? Find out here.    
 
Lauren Jackson, Seattle Storm
  After winning the 2003 and 2007 WNBA MVP awards and the 2004 WNBA title, Lauren Jackson is at the top of her game and THE game. Just think how scary it might be if she could stay away from McDonalds. Hear just how one of the best players in the game does it.     
 
Asjha Jones, Connecticut Sun
  Sun forward Asjha Jones likes to fill up on pancakes before her games. Find out what other things she does to stay in shape and keep her energy level at its highest.     
 
Kara Lawson, Connecticut Sun
  Monarchs guard Kara Lawson started working out in a little pink baby outfit when she was little. Is it any wonder how she became an All-Star in the WNBA?     
 
Taj McWilliams-Franklin, Minnesota Lynx
  WNBA veteran Taj McWilliams-Franklin is still one of the top post players in the league, even at age 37. Read on to find out how she stays in shape and which exercises she absolutely dreads doing.     
 
Ticha Penicheiro, Chicago Sky
  There is no way that anyone can could tell that Sacramento Monarchs point guard Ticha Penicheiro is getting older. She continues to dazzle fans, teammates and even the opposition with her playmaking highlights. So how does this international superstar compete with all the new kids coming into the league and stay in as great shape as she does?     
 
Cappie Pondexter, New York Liberty
  The 2007 Finals MVP isn't only in terrific physical condition, with huge biceps and cat-like quickness and agility on the court She's also known for being one of the league's most clutch players late in games, which requires both incredible focus and remarkable stamina.    
 
Nicole Powell, New York Liberty
  After being traded to the Sacramento Monarchs after her rookie season, forward Nicole Powell felt she had something to prove. She has been working her tail off in the offseason to come back even better.     
 
Ruth Riley, Chicago Sky
  Very few WNBA players, if anyone, work harder than Silver Stars forward Ruth Riley. That is why she has been a winner everywhere she has gone... from the championship at Notre Dame to the WNBA titles and All-Star appearances with Detroit and an Olympic gold medal, you could do much worse in terms of a role model than the 6-5 Indiana native.     
 
Katie Smith, Seattle Storm
  Katie Smith is a WNBA champion and a member of the WNBA's All-Decade Team who has won two Olympic gold medals and two World Championship golds while representing the United States. But she hates running. How does she stay in shape during the offseason?     
 
Erin Thorn, Minnesota Lynx
  Did you know that Liberty guard Erin Thorn can run a very speedy mile when she's in peak condition? Find out how fast Erin can run and other workout tips from the New York Liberty sharpshooter.     
 
Tina Thompson, Seattle Storm
  An All-WNBA forward, the leader of the U.S. Women's National Team and a full-time mother? Houston Comets legend Tina Thompson is doing something right about staying healthy and fit. Find out more about her routine.    
 
  Second-year Silver Star Sophia Young hates running on a treadmill, but loves sprints. Find out how the power forward stays in tip-top physical condition to compete in the Western Conference.    
Former WNBA Players Staying Fit
    
 Sandy Brondello shares the secrets of her fitness routine, from the exercises she likes and dislikes to her recovery tactics and pregame eating habits.    
 
Kayte Christensen, Chicago Sky
Sky forward Kayte Christensen knows that the key to staying in shape is to be active all year long. That is why she mixes up her fitness routine with lots of football, beach volleyball and even a little bit of hoops.     
 
Houston's Cynthia Cooper comes back year after year and remains one of the league's top players because she takes care of her body. Learn what Coop does to stay in top playing shape year-round.    
 
Stacey Dales, Chicago Sky
Sky forward Stacey Dales is a broadcaster for ESPN in the offseason, but she still spends several hours working out everyday to make sure those college kids never get the best of her when they make it to the WNBA.     
 
  Any new mom knows that getting back to a fitness routine after the birth of a child is tough, but Helen Darling has taken it to a whole other level. Just over a year after giving birth to triplets, the 5-6 Darling was back in action on the hardwood.     
 
Anna DeForge, Indiana Fever
  Fever guard Anna DeForge worked her way back into the WNBA thanks to perseverence and a committment to her game, a game that has elevated all the way to All-Star status.     
 
Tamecka Dixon, Houston Comets
  Did you know that Comets guard Tamecka Dixon loves the elliptical trainer and sprints but struggles with running distance? Dixon shares her fitness secrets.     
 
Minnesota's Teresa Edwards thinks that the best way to stay in shape in the offseason is to keep playing basketball. However, she also cannot live without a cup of coffee before games. Find out what else this former U.S. Olympian does to keep her body in playing shape.    
 
Sting forward Allison Feaster performed at the highest level for years and was a WNBA All-Star thanks to her level of committment to her own personal fitness. She can even do 40 push-ups in a row!    
 
  San Antonio's 2005 season all but ended when All-Star Marie Ferdinand was lost with an injury and she missed the 2006 season due to pregnancy, but she is now back and as strong as ever. She talks about the role of fitness and staying in shape as vital to her health and the durability of her career.     
 
 Former Houston Comets guard Ukari Figgs shares the secrets of her fitness routine. So, bring on the elliptical walker and leave those lemon squeezes at home. But keep those fried foods away. Figgs says that "Being from the south, its kind of hard not to eat fried food. Its pretty tough ... "    
 
Cheryl Ford, Detroit Shock 
  Though she missed much of the 2007 season with a knee injury, Cheryl Ford is a physical specimen in the paint who truly puts the "power" in power forward. See what keeps her so strong down low.    
 
Yolanda Griffith, Sacramento Monarchs
  Monarchs center Yolanda Griffith does not like hearing that she was the oldest player in the WNBA in 2007, but that is only because she knows she is still in better shape and capable of performing at a higher level than most of her competitors. Griffith has pondered retirement, but expect to see her back in the purple again in 2008.    
 
 Did you know that Lisa Harrison listens to old-school slow jams while working out and reaches for some fruit when she wants a healthy snack? Get the inside scoop on Harrison's exercise habits.    
 
Chamique Holdsclaw, Los Angeles Sparks
  Did you know that Sparks forward Chamique Holdsclaw is most proud of her increase in stamina, hates running distance and enjoys a nice piece of fish before games? Get the inside scoop on the All-Star's exercise habits.     
 
Betty Lennox, Seattle Storm
Storm guard Betty Lennox is a self-proclaimed gym rat, but all of that time spent taking care of herself and preparing for life as a professional basketball player finally paid off as she won the 2004 WNBA Finals MVP award and a championship.    
 
Kristen Mann, Minnesota Lynx
  Minnesota's Kristen Mann faced the difficult challenge of keeping her body in playing shape despite injuries and increasing fatigue as a rookie. But as she continues to advance, Mann is hoping that her offseason fitness regimen and strict work ethic will enable her to play more minutes and make a greater contribution to the success of the Lynx.     
 
Deanna Nolan, Detroit Shock
Detroit's Deanna Nolan knows that getting in shape does not happen overnight, but is an ongoing process that takes months. It is this kind of dedication that keeps her strong late in games and deep in the playoffs.     
 
Tamika Raymond, Minnesota Lynx
  Tamika Raymond of the Minnesota Lynx says that she really started working out during her college days at Connecticut. Find out why bench press and core work are a key part of her exercise regimen.
 
Nykesha Sales, Connecticut Sun
  Age and experience has brought about a certain wisdom in forward Nykesha Sales. As a veteran with the Connecticut Sun, Sales takes her fitness and personal health very seriously both during the season as well as in the offseason.     
 
   Charlotte Smith-Taylor knows what it takes to compete at the highest level. WNBA.com takes you inside Smith-Taylor's fitness routine -- from pool exercises to post-lifting smoothies.    
 
Nikki Teasley, Washington Mystics
Mystics guard Nikki Teasley works out under water because it makes her faster on the basketball court. She also trains out of the water, running on the treadmill and doing sit-ups to stay fast.     
 
  WNBA legend Teresa Weatherspoon has been out of the game for nearly two years now, but you wouldn't know it by looking at her. Still solid as a rock, the two-time WNBA Defensive Player of the Year and four-time All-WNBA selection is still very active and plays basketball all the time.    
 
Adrian Williams, Sacramento Monarchs
Monarchs center Adrian Williams is looking to return to her 2003 All-Star form and is working hard to achieve her personal best level of fitness and physical health.    
 
  Did you know that Indiana Fever forward Natalie Williams turns to yoga and pilates for strength and balance? Get the inside scoop on the All-Star's fitness routine.

"Hi Guillem, all of this hype sourounding jose mourinho and the saying that the wave is swinging for real madrid right now. But once Jose leaves and it does seem that he will if not this... " 				 					View all comments 				 
         
 	         				"wonderfull column as always...I think Madrid have a better chance of winning the Cup game in all of these 4 games. This is because Mourinho can play any system and not worry about how ... " 				 					View all comments 				 
         
 	         				"It's painful to watch someone like Ibrahimovic leading the line for Barcelona. He lacks pace, movement and reaction. He is slow and ponderous on the ball and slows the tempo of their ... " 				 					View all comments 				 
         
 			 															 		  	        Scott  Mcclymont  on Running out of time?
 	         				"Hi Guillem,  With regards to Ronaldo coming back to United, I think this could happen after his contract has finished at RM. He's making all the right noises and isn't dismissing the ... " 				 					View all comments 				 
         
Check out Guillem's thoughts and whether you agree with him or not, let us know YOUR views by filling in the feedback form at the bottom of the page...
Iniesta or Zidane?
The first point to make is that, while we all love to compare players, one of these players has now retired (Zidane) and the other is still playing (Iniesta). In truth, players are always looked upon with a greater reverence once they have retired than they are when they are playing. The phrase: "You don't know what you've got 'til it's gone" applies in football just as much as it does in life
 	 				 					Iniesta: Guillem thinks the Barca maestro is better than Zidane - but do you?
 				 Once they have stopped playing we tend to forget the missed chances, the bad games they played, the moments of petulance that often caused problems for the team they were playing for, rather than against. But what we do have is a mass of statistics, and while stats may not tell the whole story, they certainly go some way to painting a picture as to who actually was/is the best.
  				  				 Of course while Zidane's stats are now set in stone, Iniesta's are constantly changing. The fact that we are already discussing whether he is, or is not, a better player than Zidane while he is still playing and more than a year shy of his 30th birthday is probably a reasonable pointer to the fact that even if he is not yet up to the Frenchman's standards, and personally I think he is, he almost certainly will be by the time he hangs up his boots. Or not? Let me put my case...
Honours won with clubs
In terms of trophies and honours won, the achievements of Iniesta put Zidane in the shade. The Frenchman, who played for Cannes, Bordeaux, Juventus and Real Madrid, won two Serie A league titles in 1996-97 and 1997-98; one La Liga in 2002-03; and one Champions League in 2001-02. Zidane was on the losing side in Champions League finals with Juventus against Borussia Dortmund in 1997 (1-3) and Real Madrid 1998 (0-1)
Iniesta, on the other hand, has only ever played as a senior for Barcelona. Since making his debut in 2002, he has won five La Liga titles (probably soon to be six this year) and these five have been won in the last seven years: 2004-05, 2005-6, 2008-09, 2009-10, 2010-11. In Europe he has won three Champions League titles - 2005-6, 2008-9, 2010-11 - and has never been on the losing side in a Champions League final
International honours won
Internationally the records of the two players are equally impressive. Both made their full international debuts aged 22. In the 12 years Zidane played for France he notched 108 caps and 31 goals. Iniesta has played for the full international side 78 times over the past seven years during which time he has scored 11 goals. Both players have won the World Cup with their countries, Zidane in 1998 and Iniesta in 2010. Both players have scored in the World Cup final, Zidane heading two of France's goals against Brazil and Iniesta hitting the winner against the Netherlands.
Both players have won the European Championship, too, Zidane in 2000 and Iniesta in 2008 and 2012. The victory in 2012 made Spain the only side ever to retain the European Football Championship. Iniesta, injury permitting will almost certainly go on to equal if not better the number of international caps won by Zidane. But in addition to his senior caps it should be mentioned that Iniesta has represented his country no fewer than 123 times since 2000 at Under 15, 17, 19, 20, 21 as well as at full international level, winning the Under-17 European Championship in 2001 and Under-19 European Championship in 2002.
International awards
Zidane has received more international award than Iniesta winning the FIFA World Player of the Year three times, in 1998, 2000 and 2003, and the Ballon D'Or in 1998. The two awards were amalgamated in 2010. Iniesta took the UEFA Best Player in Europe Award in 2012. The Barcelona midfielder, three times in the top four of the FIFA Ballon d'Or, hasn't won as many personal awards as Zidane but Zidane did not have the likes of Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo around at the time
Iniesta's individual awards:
UEFA Euro Team of the Tournament (2): 2008, 2012
UEFA Euro 2008 Man Of The Match: Semi-final vs. Russia
La Liga Spanish Player of the Year: 2009
La Liga's Best Attacking Midfielder (3): 2009, 2011, 2012
Trofeo Alfredo di Stéfano: 2nd best player in La Liga 2008-09, 3rd 2011-12.
FIFA/FIFPro World XI (4): 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012
UEFA Team of the Year (4): 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012
Ballon d'Or: 4th Place 2009
FIFA Puskás Award: Second place 2009
2010 FIFA World Cup All-Star Team
2010 FIFA World Cup Man Of The Match vs. Chile, Paraguay and Final vs Netherlands
Much has been made of the fact that Iniesta is not as great as Zidane because of the players he has played with. Certainly Iniesta is playing for arguably the greatest club side in the history of the game, and precisely one of the reasons they are such a great side is because Iniesta not only plays for them but is one of the leading lights of this great Barcelona side. Much is made of the fact that Iniesta has the likes of Messi to feed with assists.
But it is also worth noting that Zidane only ever won one La Liga title and one Champions League despite playing alongside players like, Spain's captain Fernando Hierro, the Brazilian Ronaldo, Luis Figo and arguably the greatest legend in the history of Spanish football, Raul. At Juventus he played with following players during his stay: World Cup winners Alessandro Del Piero, Didier Deschamps, Felipe Inzaghi, Thierry Henry and David Trezeguet. Antonio Conte (Champions League and five-time Serie A winner), Edgar Davids (Champions League and three-time Serie A winner).
Plus, I wouldn't say the France team that won the 1998 World Cup was bad and that Zidane did everything for the side, as it featured the likes of Patrick Vieira, Laurent Blanc, Bixente Lizarazu, Youri Djorkaeff, Deschamps, Robert Pires, Henry, Lilian Thuram and Trezeguet.
Other players' comments
In 2009, after Barcelona had beaten Manchester United in the Champions League final, Wayne Rooney said, "Forget Messi, Iniesta is the best player in the world." And since that date, Iniesta has only got better.
Robert Pires said only last week: "For me Iniesta is the best player at Barca. We always talk about Messi, but without Iniesta, Barcelona area different team. He is the master of the team. He's the one who sets the pace for the whole team."
Juan Roman Riquelme: "I watch Iniesta and realise that even at my age I could be learning new things."
David Silva: "The press often ask me about whether Messi or Ronaldo is the best, but for me something is very clear. Andres Iniesta is the number one.
Sergio Ramos: "He is the enlightened one. Someone touched by a magic wand. He commands so much respect on the pitch. As a football lover I am proud to have played with him. He makes the difference and does things that no one else can do."
Fernando Torres: "When he has the ball, it's like everything else stops - like the camera going in slow motion. I've been playing with him since we were 15 and I have never, ever seen him play badly." 
Someone once said that in football average to good players are normally strong against the weak but sometimes weak against the strong. What defines great players is that they are, almost without exception, strong against both the weak and the strong.
That in a nutshell is Andres Iniesta. The little genius for the enormous occasions. Fernando Torres sums it up perfectly. "I've been playing with him since I was 15," he says, "And I have never seen him play badly." 
Think of the last-gasp dagger to the heart of Chelsea that earned Barcelona a place in the 2009 Champions League final; or the stunning pass that put Samuel Eto'o through to score in the final against Manchester United; or perhaps the winning strike that earned Spain their first World Cup against the Dutch in 2010. Big-time games call for big-time players, and there's no-one bigger than Iniesta.
Tito Vilanova asked Iniesta what lessons he learnt the previous season. Clearly Andrés had felt that by staying on the wing, where Pep Guardiola often placed him, he was not helping the team as much as he thought he could. Tito told him not to worry.
The arrival of Jordi Alba was going to give the wing to the full back and Tito told Iniesta to pretty much do whatever he wanted - and now he is playing in freer role in midfield from where his silvery, seemingly effortless skills can terrorize defences, much like he does in the red of Spain. He is becoming even greater.
But why is he not given the credit he deserves? Well probably for a very similar reason to why Zidane has been feted as the greatest midfielder ever - primarily because he stood head and shoulders above the vast majority of players he played with. His absence from the 2002 World Cup from the French side stood out like a sore thumb.
Iniesta is a genius who just happens to have played all his life for what is arguably the greatest club side in the history of the game, who also have in Lionel Messi , probably the greatest player ever and also for a country that stands, at the moment, above any other footballing nation. 
Iniesta controls games with an economy of effort, a skill and a guile that combines the passing genius of Xavi and the dribbling wizadry of Messi. While Messi is at Barcelona, Iniesta will never receive the credit he deserves, yet ironically it can be argued that without mercurial input of Iniesta, Messi would not be quite the force he is now.
But perhaps another of the reasons that he doesn't get the credit he deserves is because he doesn't have the ego of so many of the pretenders to his throne. His arrogance is reserved to his performances on the field and not his antics off it. He has never been sent off in the 10+ years he has been playing in the Barcelona first team, or while playing for his country. 
Zidane's volatile nature earned him 12 red cards, the last one coming in the 2006 final for a flying butt on Materazzi that meant the Frenchman could not take a penalty in the shoot-out that followed and that France subsequently lost. On that note Zidane quit professional football. When Iniesta finally decides that enough is enough, it will almost certainly be a more appropriate departure. I know that doesn't qualify one as better than the other, but I think the rest (stats and impressions) does.
I remember saying that Gareth Bale was at his age as good as Ronaldo at his and many people dismissed the idea, which is now being mentioned by many. Or that an 18-year-old Messi was going to become one of the top three players in the world. But I also said that Reyes was better than Cristiano Ronaldo at the time (which he was) but Ronaldo since then has become a force of nature. 
Saying that Iniesta is better than Zidane is as bold a statement as any of those (and perhaps impossible to demonstrate, even though I think there is enough evidence in this piece). We might not agree but I would love to hear those that disagree (and give me your reasons) and those that feel brave enough to agree.
What would football be without a good argument!

Each FOXSports.com fantasy contributor shared three-to-five fantasy baseball sleepers to keep an eye on heading into owners' fantasy baseball drafts.  Over the next two months, expect several updates to our positional fantasy baseball catcher rankings.
  	
Jesus Montero, Mariners – Montero didn’t quite live up to his heightened expectations in his rookie season, but he wasn’t dreadful, either, hitting .260 with 15 jacks and 62 RBI. He was a bigger disappointment in OBP leagues (just a .298 mark) and playing half his games in Safeco Field isn’t doing him any favors (.227/.268/.337 in 70 games). However, after a slow start in the Emerald City, Montero showed signs of life in the second half, posting a .278 average after the All-Star break. Moreover, the 23-year-old is expected to make a majority of his appearances at designated hitter, bestowing more playing time than most players with catcher eligibility. With the potential of a top-five player at the position, Montero’s expected draft selection in the later rounds is a steal.
  	A.J. Pierzynski, Rangers – How about a good ‘ol fashioned blind resume comparison? From last season:
  	Player A: 592 PA, 23 HR, 83 RBI, 67 R, .249/.329/.435
 	Player B: 520 PA, 27 HR, 77 RBI, 68 R, .278/.326/.501
  	The former would be Baltimore backstop Matt Wieters, most likely the third catcher picked in your draft, while the latter is Pierzynski, who will go unselected in a fair amount of standard leagues. Highly unlikely that the 36-year-old Pierzynski replicates his bomb barrage from last year, as the former All-Star hit just 43 four-baggers in the previous four campaigns. However, Pierzynski is remarkably consistent from an average perspective, with a .283 figure from the last five seasons. Better yet, Pierzynski joins one of the more explosive offensives in the American League that plays in a hitter-friendly ballpark. Though the long balls will drop, envision the ribbies and runs to remain solid, if not improve.
  	Ryan Doumit, Twins – Like Montero, Doumit’s greatest asset is that he won’t necessarily be featured as a catcher, logging more than 55 percent of his playing time in 2012 at designated hitter or in the outfield, saving his legs and extending his appearances. At first glance, duplicating last year’s 18 blasts may be a tall order for Doumit, yet the elevated figure is more a byproduct of increased plate appearances rather than coincidence, as his home run to fly ball rate was consistent with his historical output. His value takes a slight decline in OBP formats, and his average will likely regress in 2013, yet as a No. 2 catcher or starter in deeper leagues, Doumit is a dependable entity.
  	Alex Avila, Tigers – At this juncture last winter, Avila was ranked in most preseason lists as a top-five player behind the plate. Heading into 2013, Avila is on the outside looking in on most top-15 backstop rankings. The drops in power and run production were the upshots of decreased playing time and injuries, and though his .295 average from 2011 might be an aberration, the Detroit catcher’s 23.8 line-drive percentage states his .243 batting mark from last year should have been better. The upcoming campaign will only be the fourth full year in the majors for the 25-year-old, making expectations for improvement a realistic endeavor.
  	
Kurt Suzuki, Nationals – Wilson Ramos is expected back from his 2012 knee injury, but the Nats’ website says he’ll be brought along slowly, leaving Suzuki atop the depth chart when Spring Training begins. Why would you want a catcher who’s batted .242, .237 and .235 over the past three seasons? Because he perked up in the second half of last season, hitting .267 with six homers and a .733 OPS (and a lower strikeout rate). Remember 2008 and 2009, when Suzuki batted in the .270s and averaged double-digit homers? We might see that guy again. Suzuki isn't a bad choice for a mixed-league second catcher, even with Ramos looming as a playing-time threat.
  	Jason Castro, Astros – No, I will NOT make a “Castro the Astro” joke. Castro hit four home runs in the final seven games of 2012, but that’s not why he’s here – at least not entirely. After missing 2011 with a knee injury, Castro batted .267 with a .735 OPS (19th among catchers with 250 plate appearances). He has a pretty good eye, and a minor-league track record of solid batting averages. Castro won’t give you tons of pop, but as a mixed-league No. 2, he could provide decent counting stats with a solid BA. There are a lot of .230 hitters at this position, in case you forgot.
  	Ryan Lavarnway, Red Sox – At press time – do they still say “press time?” – the Sox were close to signing Mike Napoli, but he’s expected to spend most of his time at first base. That currently leaves them with a catching platoon of Jarrod Saltalamacchia and David Ross.
  	Salty got some credit for a breakout 2012, but his 25 homers were weighed down by a .222 BA, a .288 on-base percentage and whiffs in 31 percent of his plate appearances – a rate exceeded by only five major leaguers with more than 300 at bats. Whether the Red Sox are contending or rebuilding, they probably know that the powerful Lavarnway (34 HRs across three levels in 2011, only 10 HRs with an .815 OPS in 2012) is a better hitter than Saltalamacchia, who could be dealt before Opening Day. Even if Lavarnway starts the season in the minors, and even if he shares time with David Ross in Boston, the bet here is that he’ll hit a dozen homers with a solid BA.
  	
   	Michael Zunino, Mariners – Zunino isn’t in my top 40 yet, because even though he’ll reportedly compete for the starting job in Spring Training, actually <i>getting</i> it with only 57 plate appearances above A ball sounds like a longshot. Still, he hit 13 homers with a 1.137 OPS in 161 at bats between rookie league and Double A. Whenever Zunino gets the call to Seattle – and it could be right out of Spring Training – he should play and provide enough pop to make himself useful in deeper mixed leagues. Keeper leaguers should snatch up Zunino in drafts.
  	Fowler
  	
Salvador Perez, Royals - As far as I see it, the term “sleeper” carries several different meanings in fantasy baseball circles. For Sal Perez, the hype is evident and nobody is sleeping on the Royals’ catcher.
  	However, that hype turns off some fantasy owners and knocks him down composite rankings. Those owners will wait for their buddy to reach on Perez, in favor of finding better value with their pick that round.
  	Well, at this point, I’m “that guy” buying into the hype. In an abridged 2012 season (knee surgery), Perez hit .301 (.328 OBP) with 11 home runs in 289 at bats. In 32 winter-league games (Venezuela), Perez hit .371 (.412 OBP) with eight home runs and 39 runs batted in. His minor league numbers suggest with temper power expectations, but the average is comparable. With a shallow talent pool at catcher, I’m willing to gamble early on a guy who can hit around .300 with 15-20 home runs
  	Jonathan Lucroy, Brewers - Although it was a freak accident, owners were displeased with the wife of Jon Lucroy last May when she dropped a suitcase on his hand, broke it and forced the Brewers’ catcher to miss all of June and most of July. Despite the absence, digest these year-over-year stats:
  	2011: 430 AB / 45 R / 16 2B / 12 HR / 59 RBI / .265 BA
 	2012: 316 AB / 46 R / 17 2B / 12 HR / 58 RBI / .320 BA
  	With Ryan Braun, Aramis Ramirez and Corey Hart ahead of him in the lineup, expect Lucroy to drive in more runs in 2013.
  	Carlos Ruiz, Phillies - “Chooch” broke our hearts after testing positive for amphetamines this past November. He’s suspended the first 25 games of the season, which allows him to return to the Phillies in late-April. His three-year average is over .300 with over 100 hits in each of the last three seasons. However, at the age of 34 (as of January 22), Ruiz’s ancillary fantasy stats, especially his unexpected 16 home runs in 2012, could sway drastically to the negative. Ruiz falls into my buyer beware bucket.
  	
Welington Castillo, Cubs - It’s no secret that the new Chicago front office is in the midst of a long-term building plan. Castillo was one of the first new pieces put into place when he took the reins as the Cubs’ everyday catcher in August. He batted .294 with 13 extra-base hits and 18 RBI over 41 games in August and September. There’s certainly concern about his contact rate, as Castillo struck out in 30% of his at-bats. However, you need to pause and celebrate his .422 BABIP during that two-month period.
  	Castillo posted a double-digit home run count in four of his five complete minor league seasons.
  	Travis d’Arnaud, Mets - The former top prospect in Toronto came over as part of the R.A. Dickey trade. d’Arnaud batted .333 with 39 extra-base hits (16 home runs) and 52 RBI in 63 games for Las Vegas in the Pacific Coast League. He’s a former first-round pick of the Phillies who has demonstrated strong gap power through six minor league seasons. The missing piece of the equation is d’Arnaud’s low walk rate (one per 14 plate appearances).
  	
   	The current state of the New York lineup and low expectations for the squad dictate that a shift to a young player with great upside will be in the offing. John Buck is not that player. So, while d’Arnaud may start the season in Triple-A, I believe that he’s a fantasy force at the position as the season progresses.
  	Derek Norris, A's - Norris batted an anemic .201 in 60 games last season with a frightening strikeout rate (31.6% of his at-bats). Despite his low batting average, Norris did present solid output in several categories. Norris produced 16 extra-base hits (seven home runs) with 34 RBI and five stolen bases.
  	Looking through his minor league career, the 23-year-old Norris (he’ll turn 24 on Valentine’s Day) has twice hit at least 20 home runs and twice stole more than 10 bases. Norris’ strikeout rate is concerning, and regular at-bats in Oakland (and on the road in Seattle) will turn home runs into doubles and outs. There’s still enough to intrigue me as a back-end C2.
  	
Victor Martinez. Tigers - This is less of a "sleeper" and more of a reminder. VMart sat out the entire 2012 season with a torn ACL and this year joins a stacked Detroit line-up. He'll bat in the company of Miguel Cabrera, Prince Fielder, and Torii Hunter. In 2011, Victor led all catchers in hits (178), doubles (40), RBI (103), and batting average (.330). Since 2005, when he plays in at least 120 games (almost 4 ABs per game), Martinez averages 96 RBI, 19 HR, and 170 hits per season. He's in the midst of a baserunning program now and trainers say he'll be ready for Opening Day.
  	Ryan Doumit, Twins - When you think of a catcher in Minnesota , Doumit probably isn't your first choice. But, he hit a career high 18 home runs, more than Joe Mauer (10) last season. The Twins won't be contending for an AL Central title in 2013, so Ryan can just focus on getting more and more reps in a starters role. The stat that I look for in a quality catcher is games played. Obviously, human backstops can't play all 162 games, even when they have the option to DH or play first base, but Doumit played in a career high 134 games and finished ninth in GP out of all other catchers. Plus, while he doesn't have eligibility in the OF or DH spot yet, all it takes is 10 starts, adding versatility to your roster.
  	Salvador Perez, Royals - Full disclosure: I'm a big fan of this guy. I thought he would be successful in 2012 and then Perez missed 86 games with a knee injury. After the All-Star break, Sal concluded the season in the top 10 of catchers in hits, runs, and RBI. He's played in 115 official MLB games since 2011. In that duration his career numbers include a .311 avg, 60 RBI (about an RBI every 2 games), and 14 HRs. After the regular season, Sal returned home and played in the Venezuelan League and won Rookie of the Year. Depending on your league setting, owners should draft only one catcher. Perez will probably be one of the last taken and finish as one of the best.

Jason Whitlock writes about the sports world from every angle, including those other writers can't imagine or muster courage to address. His columns are humorous, thought-provoking, agenda-free, honest and unpredictable. E-mail him or follow his Twitter or become a fan of Jason Whitlock on Facebook.
    		        			  		        		 	  		        		 	
 		 	Lost last week in the hysteria of Manti Te’o’s bogus girlfriend experience and Oprah’s sit-down with Lance Armstrong was the report outlining the depth of Bill Hunter’s affinity for nepotism and his mom-and-pop management style of the NBA players’ association.
  	
   	At the behest of union president Derek Fisher, the NBPA paid $4 million for an eight-month, internal investigation that produced a 200-plus-page report that any casual observer of the players’ association could’ve summarized years ago in 10 words for one-hundredth the price tag.
  	(1) Too. (2) Much. (3) Power. (4) And. (5) Too. (6) Long. (7) A. (8) Tenure. (9) Corrupted. (10) Hunter.
  	Too much power and too long a tenure corrupted Hunter, the executive director of the union since 1996.
  	A fancy-schmancy law firm bilked the NBPA out of big bucks by diagnosing a problem Stevie Wonder could see. It’s the equivalent of me hiring a personal trainer to diagnose that my butt and gut are too big.
  	You pay big money for root causes and solutions — not the things Manti Te’o could figure out.
  	Firing Billy Hunter won’t fix what’s wrong with the NBPA. Firing Billy Hunter and replacing him with Fisher or some NBA agent-approved lapdog won’t fix what’s wrong with the NBPA.
  	What’s wrong with the NBPA, and what’s not addressed in the carefully crafted and manipulated, $4 million FIRE BILLY HUNTER report, is the lack of engagement in union affairs by the overwhelming majority of NBA players in general and the league’s top players in particular.
  	
 	Franchise success or failure often can be traced to the top. We rank the five best and five worst NBA owners.
 
   	What’s wrong with the NBPA is that LeBron James, Kevin Durant, Carmelo Anthony, Dwight Howard, Dwyane Wade, Kobe Bryant, Blake Griffin, Russell Westbrook, Dirk Nowitzki, Tony Parker, Tim Duncan and countless other players who matter don’t care enough to get involved.
  	Until the NBPA is led by an executive director with the necessary passion and intellect to push a vision strong enough to capture the engagement of James, Durant, Melo, Griffin and a handful of other in-their-prime superstars, the NBPA will always remain a toothless, dysfunctional mom-and-pop operation at best or an exploited puppet regime of power agents at worst.
  	The previous wordy paragraph is the point of this column. I’m sorry it took me so long to get there. But Manti Te’o and Lennay Kekua botched the timing of this column, and I felt it was best to back into my main point.
  	The NBPA is the most underachieving organization in all of sports. Yep, it’s worse than the NHL, the NHL players’ union, the Chicago Cubs and the Kardashian family Chastity Belt. If properly run, the NBPA could push basketball ahead of football at home and abroad and be the catalyst eradicating America’s despicable relationship with college football and basketball shamateurism.
  	No group of athletes wields more power than professional basketball players, and no group does less with its power than LeBron James and Co. The blame for this rests with the players, who are immature, spoiled and distracted, and Hunter, who has never been the kind of true believer dynamic leader capable of capturing the imagination of the players he represents.
  	
   	Hunter took control of the NBPA at the apex of Michael Jordan’s career. In Jordan’s final two years playing for the Bulls (96-97 and 97-98), Jordan earned $30 million and $33 million a season from the Bulls. No NBA player has earned more than $28 million (Kevin Garnett 03-04) in any season since.
  	Consider this: LeBron James has never earned more than the $17.5 million he’ll make this year in Miami. Fifteen years after Jordan left Chicago, the heir to his throne is making a little more than half the cash Jordan pocketed.
  	Dan Marino retired in 1999. Can you think of a scenario in which Peyton Manning would be paid half as much as Marino earned in the previous century? Marino set the contract standard for elite QBs in the early 1990s (around $4 million a year) and then capped his career pulling in around $6 million a year. The Broncos paid Manning $18 million this season.
  	Despite the ignorant ramblings of his critics, Gene Upshaw was a dynamic leader of the NFL players’ union. He connected with his base and got key players involved in the fight for salary growth and the overall growth of the league. Upshaw had a vision of how NFL players could work with NFL owners to grow the entire league and grow the pot of money they all shared.
  	Hunter has exhibited no such vision. Years ago he got baited into a personal feud with David Stern. Hunter managed the players’ association in a way that gave him as much flexibility and autonomy as Stern. The lack of player engagement became an asset for Hunter’s fiefdom. In order to ward off threats from the power agents who desire to control the union, Hunter surrounded himself with family and yes men.
  	
   	Hunter should give up the fight. The scathing report lays bare his lone priority — retention of power. He’s too old to reinvent himself. Hunter should spend the next six months helping the union reorganize and identify an executive director with a vision for basketball that will inspire James, Durant, Melo and D12 to join the fight.
  	As we saw during the labor fight last year, Derek Fisher is not that guy. I think Fish wants Hunter’s job. I can come up with no other explanation for his brief stint with the Mavericks this season. Fisher signed with the Mavs and quickly quit just to retain his position within the players union. Fisher needs to go.
  	Chris Paul, a member of the executive committee, is the perfect person to replace Fisher as president, particularly if Paul has the balls to tell his representatives from CAA to get out of union business.
  	The union needs an executive director who is equally suspicious of ownership and agents. The union needs an executive director who has the balls to be loyal solely to the players. Who that is? I don’t know. Ask Oscar Robertson or Bill Russell or Bill Bradley for some advice.
  	But the union must find a basketball true believer, someone who is offended football has a higher place in the American landscape than basketball, someone who believes LeBron James and Kevin Durant should earn $40 million a season while the players on the bench still earn a good seven-figures salary.
  	
   	It can happen. Stern, in my opinion, surrendered the basketball-football domestic battle when the Jordan era ended and college basketball survived high school stars going straight to the NBA. Stern’s Plan B was to win the international war and make the NBA the global game of choice. Good luck taking a significant cut of soccer’s turf.
  	Plus, everything national starts local. You can’t win abroad if you don’t win at home. The war for hearts and sports minds begins here at home. American basketball is broken. The greatness of college basketball is a media-driven hoax on the level of Lennay Kekua. College hoops enjoys tremendous passion and crowd noise. The play on the court is brutal for a variety of reasons — the top reason being the best players leave after one year and there’s little chance of top programs developing continuity because of it.
  	The one-and-done era coupled with the previous era of players such as Kobe and KG going straight to the NBA from high school have severely damaged the marketability of NBA players. Rather than huge college stars bringing their fans with them to the NBA — the way NBA players used to and NFL players still do — most hardcore college fans hate the NBA because they blame the league for stealing their players and hurting college hoops.
  	This needs to be fixed. It can be fixed if James, Durant and other stars get engaged in the union and work with the league in formulating a strategic plan to financially incentivize players to stay in college for three to four years. NCAA shamateurism will disappear the moment CBS hears there’s a plan in place to return the Patrick Ewings and Ralph Sampsons of the world to the NCAA Tournament in their junior and senior seasons.
  	
   	Trust me, there’s a way for the NBA, the NBPA and the NCAA to form some sort of convoluted limited partnership that would allow the NBA/NBPA to pay elite college players as summer interns. And there’s a way for the top college basketball programs to pay the NBA/NBPA money for leaving the top players in college for three or four years. I’m saying the NBA and college basketball could split the cost of compensating our best and brightest basketball stars while they mature and are properly marketed by Dick Vitale, Jay Bilas, Clark Kellogg and Co.
  	I don’t want to bog this column down with every detail on how college basketball could be tweaked. But don’t be fooled into believing Title IX or some other mumbo jumbo prevents the NCAA and the NBA from working together to come up with some sort of plan that allows our best teenage basketball players to receive $100K a summer as interns and earn additional significant sums of cash that would be payable when they complete their third or fourth year of eligibility.
  	There’s a way everyone can win — players, the NBA, college basketball, the television networks and basketball fans.
  	An outside-the-box idea like this would have to be driven by young people inspired by a dynamic leader. It’s time for outside-the-box thinking. Stern is stepping aside in a year. Hunter should bow out along with Stern.
  	The NBPA is the key to fixing basketball. The NBPA has to be fixed before basketball can be repaired and put in position to reach its full potential.
  	Here are the nine players on the NBPA executive committee: Derek Fisher, Chris Paul, Keyon Dooling, Roger Mason, Matt Bonner, Maurice Evans, Etan Thomas, James Jones and Theo Ratliff.
  	That’s not a who’s who of the NBA. That’s a who’s not.
  	Here are the player representatives: Anthony Tolliver, Rajon Rondo, Kris Humphries, Ben Gordon, Carlos Boozer, Dahntay Jones, Andre Iguodala, Rodney Stuckey, Stephen Curry, Toney Douglas, David West, Caron Butler, Steve Blake, Mike Conley, Norris Cole, Luc Mbah A Moute, Kevin Love, Mason, Steve Novak, Nick Collison, Jameer Nelson, Damien Wilkins, Sebastian Telfair, Nolan Smith, John Salmons, Bonner, Kyle Lowry, Mo Williams and Martell Webster.
  	No offense to this group, but it sounds like the cast from Charles Barkley’s “Who He Play For?” segment on TNT more than a group ready to force the NBA and the NCAA to embrace real change.
  	Fire Billy Hunter. Fine. No one is going to object.
  	If the players have a legitimate interest in improving their union, experiencing the kind of economic growth they deserve and unseating the NFL atop the American sports mountaintop, LeBron, Durant, Melo, Blake and a few others can’t leave union business in the hands of players looking to set up their next job or well-intentioned, agent-controlled players who don’t matter.
  	If LeBron and Co. don’t want to invest and do the work, the NBPA might as well leave Billy Hunter, his kids and Derek Fisher in place. If the stars don’t engage in the process, the next internal report about the executive director will reveal just as many problems and King James will always be paid far less than his true value.

Funny
Exactly how annoying must Joey Barton be that, after having him in their country for six months, the whole of France emigrates to Newcastle?
Velamuri, India


Why Arsenal Won't Sign Anyone
It's not that there isn't anyone out there, it's not that the money isn't there...it's more that they haven't got a specific weakness. Hang on before you lynch me, hear me out. The trouble with Arsenal is that it is just generally across the board that they are...well just a little bit mehhh. They are ok but like 20% or 25% short of what you want. I'ts not like you can say 'Arsenal are great if only they had a new keeper they would win the league'. Basically other than maybe Jack Wilshire you could name three or four players that are better in almost every position. 

So, firstly, that means the replacements are bloody expensive and secondly that also means then that it is a very difficult team to turn around, you almost need to swap out most of the team to make a real impact. One player not even Messi or Ronaldo would really make the difference (Okay they would make a bit of a difference but not enough!).
So, sorry Arsenal fans, it's probably another two years before they can win something. 
Andy, Toronto


44 Trophies To Ex-Arsenal Players. Anybody Beat That?
*Sigh* Arsenal fans, please stop putting a '$' or a '£' in the name of your outgaining players name. Examples are:

A$hley Cole or Ca$hley
Van Per$ie
Na$ri
Ce$c Fabrega$

Yes blah blah blah they are on more money, but since your last trophy in 2005 a total of 44 trophies have been enjoyed among the outgoing star players at your club. Source here: http://www.thesun.co.uk/sol/homepage/sport/football/4498786/Stars-quit-Arsenal-and-win-44-medals.html

44! To Arsenals 0...in 8 years!!!

I won't go through them all, but you've got the obvious ones like Vieira, Henry, Nasri, Cesc and Cole, but there's even players like Lauren, Seb Larsson, Reyes, Sol Campbell and Lass Diarra. I wonder if any other club can match that kind of difference of 44 trophies to outgoing players since leaving within eight years. Maybe Leeds? I'd be interested to know.
TJ (Wil$here to Man United...eventually)


Good Luck Wilf
Congratulations Wilf. In my opinion United is the best place for him to develop his talent. While it is sad to lose a player with his quality who has come through the academy, it is an inevitability of our current status. The deal our chairmen have got is a good one with money to strengthen now and Wilf staying until the end of the season to help our promotion push. His ambition matches his talent and he fully deserves a move to a massive club like United. Everyone at Palace will wish him well and make the most of him for the rest of this season, it will be a while until we see such a player again.

For the United fans what you have got is an amazing talent, he does everything at such pace and it makes him incredibly difficult to play against. I have seen him do things that are difficult to comprehend just sitting watching so can't imagine what playing against him must feel like. Quite often he has two or three players marking him, which frees up the rest of our team and in particular Bolasie on the other wing, but this is demonstrated in his goal statistics. Some would argue he doesn't score enough but in reality he contributes goals consistently nearly every game, either directly assisting or providing space for others.

He won't have the same attention at United and given the space I think he will really kick on and become a force, United have got a great deal here and I really hope to see Wilf fulfil his potential there. Obviously after helping us get promoted of course.
Ant, CPFC


The Follies Of The PL
In reply to Nathan, the reason why the Spanish and French players have thrived in the EPL is the same reason why the Spain and France national teams have had more success than England over the past 15 years, far more technically gifted players. It doesnt make sense to me why the likes Zaha/Henderson/Wickham/Carroll have gone or are going for huge money when ya can pick up far better players in at least six leagues around the world for half the money. If I was Man City, the first signing I would make would be to get Benfica's and Porto's scouts. The players they pick up for pittance around the world every year and then sell on for huge profit while remaining very competitive themselves is astounding, and is surely the type of financial sustainability what FFP is looking to reward.
MagnumPIG (£10m on Coutinho is a waste however)


French Hits And Flops
In response to Nathan (in Arsene we trust...London), I don't think the French are necessarily the safest bets when it comes to picking foreign players for English clubs. A quick wikipedia search shows that they have been the most numerous imports, but as shown below in my (unofficial and completely biased) list of hits and flops, it's pretty 50-50 when it comes to success (I've only considered the best known players out of that wikipedia list):

French hits:
Cantona, Ginola, Cabaye, Sessegnon, Dugarry, Sagna, Clichy, Nasri, Henry, Vieira, Petit, Desailly, Leboeuf, Makélélé, Anelka, Darcheville, Distin, Gallas, Djorkaeff, Dumas, Givet, Grimandi, Kaboul, Legwinski, Malbranque, N'Zogbia, Pirès, Flamini, Queudrue, Laurent Robert, Saha, Silvestre (hesitate here but I guess he was a success for a while), Evra, Wiltord...

French flops: 
Guivarc'h, Laurent Blanc (I'd say he actually flopped for ManU), Obertan, Pogba, Deschamps, Abou, Aliadière, Arphexad, Ba, Barthez, Bellion, Bonalair, Boumsong, Cheyrou, Christanval, Coquelin (so far), Cygan, Dacourt, Alou Diarra, Diomède, Goma, Kapo, Koscielny (so far), Diaby (same), Ferri, Le Tallec, Dalmat, Sinama-Pongolle, Marlet, N'Gog, Piquionne, Prunier (who can forget his appearances for ManU), Schillaci, Vignal...

I would say Spain has a better success rate (very few outright flops). Wonder if the Scandinavian nations have been more successful too (they have a reputation of adapting well to life in the UK)
Mike, Chelsea, based in Auckland


Shouldn't We See Giant-Killing On TV?
So, what a week it's been in the League Cup - and evidence of the excitement, unpredictable nature and drama of the domestic cups.

Ok, so Man U didn't take it seriously, and it was Arsenal's fifth choice 'trophy', but there's no doubt that the big teams didn't go out purposefully to lose (high-scoring drama with Reading v Arsenal and Chelsea v Man Utd remember).

So then we have the FA Cup. The biggest, most important domestic Cup in the UK, famous for giant-killing stories that trump those of Bradford.

We have two prime opportunities for such stories tomorrow - Macclesfield v Wigan, and Norwich v Luton. Both unlikely to see under-dog victories, but we all hope to see one. Neutrals across the country, whilst their teams are having a break from league action, will be following these games with interest. Five matches have been chosen for Live TV coverage, and they feature the teams who almost every weekend, have a live game on TV - Man U, Man City, Chelsea, Arsenal and Liverpool. Would it not have been nice, following such a great Cup week, to have followed this up with lunchtime TV games featuring the two potential giant-slaying games, or are we not bored of seeing the same players on TV every week?
Maybe it's just me..
Adam Shortland (Luton Town...oh, that's why he wrote this)


What About Villa?
As I understand (correct me If I'm wrong), due to a hospital A&E in the Millwall area protesting tomorrow against closure, Millwall have moved their FA cup tie with Aston Villa to tonight (quite a nice gesture by both clubs to agree with). Instead of showing it on ITV or ITV2 they have decided upon Ray Mears, who shows how a slightly portly man can survive when face with perilous circumstances, and You've Been Framed, a collection of amusing mishaps caught on camera. I won't go too much into killing two birds with one stone, but as much as I subscribe to there being too much football on TV sometimes, (sometimes, but you can always change channel) why isn't this?

It bloody annoys me to be honest, there's nothing better than a game of football on a Friday evening and a wee flutter, and before I get accused of being disrespectful, yes, I will be watching the AFCON match instead (Burkina Faso v Ethiopia), and there appears to be a Bundesliga game. It's just that I used to check the league fixtures to see if there was something to watch, whereas now I scan the TV channels to see IF it's being shown. It's the FA cup for God's sake, and just so I'm being fair, SKY have been guilty of this before when a League 1 or 2 match has been played but not shown. 

Just so you're aware, my local streams football like a rivulet and so the players move like Dimitar Berbatov, but that's not the point. On a Friday evening, if there is a match on I say it should be shown. I demand to be sated. 
Chris, ITFC, (Any tips on Burkina Faso v Ethiopia anyone?) Liverpool


Villa's Best XI Under Lerner
I wrote in after the League Cup debacle and vented my spleen about Villa and where it has all gone wrong. And as I prepare to go to Millwall tonight I find myself thinking about what could have been.

And in order to torture myself more, I came up with a Villa first team that have all played for the club during Lerner's tenure. And it made me sad to think how good this team could be. Imagine a 4-2-3-1

GK - Friedel

RB - Luke Young - probably the weakest position in the team, but still handy in his day.
CB - Mellberg.
CB - Laursen - with Mellberg, could you imagine a better looking centre-back pairing, makes me go weak at the knees. Rugged man beard of Olof and the golden haired, blue eyes of Laursen. I am in heaven.
LB - Warnock - why is he wasting in the reserves when we have problems?

CM - Gareth Barry - was our best player when he left.
CM (Captain) - Stilyan Petrov - great leader, massive miss this season and really puts everything into perspective when you think about it. Seems like a genuinely decent guy as well.

LW - Downing - player of the season when he left.
CAM - Milner - definitely his best position in the middle of the park.
RW - Young - annoying diving and all that, but still a massive talent.

CF - Darren Bent - great finisher who is wasted at the moment with no service. I know why Lambert doesn't play him as he doesn't do much other than score, but in this team he wouldn't need to.

Subs:
Given
Dunne
Benteke
Agbonlahor
Sidwell - central midfield is a massive problem
Albrighton
Bannan

Manager - Martin O'Neill of course.

There isn't much point to this mail, other than maligning the combination of bad luck (Laursen's injury, Petrov's illness) bad management (Friedel was frozen out by Houllier, as was Warnock) and Lerner cashing in (Downing, Barry, Milner, Young).

Why do I do this to myself!
Nic, AVFC


A Swansea Cup Final Song
In a week where most people have been concerned with fat ball boys getting kicked and Newcastle signing lots of people from France (how much must Graham Carr save on duty-free?) it might have escape people's notice that Swansea have reached a cup final. 

Now everyone knows that cup final teams need a song. Everyone also knows that the best cup final song was Anfield Rap, so Swansea should have a rap. Because this week's Football365 quiz is too hard I've decided to spend some time writing them one. It goes like this:

We're the Swans and we're from Wales,
We want the cup and lots of ales.
Britton, Graham and Sung-Yeung Ki
on our way to Wemb-er-ley. 

Part-owned by fans, you'll hear them roar
as they make their way on the M4
They will cross the Severn Bridge,
hoping for a goal from Wayne Routledge. 

We're the Swans and we're from Wales,
We want the cup and lots of ales.
Britton, Graham and Sung-Yeung Ki
on our way to Wemb-er-ley. 

Built by Brendan's philosophy and style,
improved with Laudrup's work and guile,
we have Ashley Williams and Little Boy Flower,
playing our football near the Gower

We're the Swans and we're from Wales,
We want the cup and lots of ales.
Britton, Graham and Sung-Yeung Ki
on our way to Wemb-er-ley. 

We have a striker called Michu,
news of this transfer bargain is sure to reach you
when he bags us lots of goals
with Pablo and de Guzman in supporting roles

We're the Swans and we're from Wales,
We want the cup and lots of ales.
Britton, Graham and Sung-Yeung Ki
on our way to Wemb-er-ley. 

We beat Chelsea and beat them well
with a guy in goal who is called Tremmel
and a right back with a rhyming name,
now Wembley victory is our aim. 

We're the Swans and we're from Wales,
We want the cup and lots of ales.
Britton, Graham and Sung-Yeung Ki
on our way to Wemb-er-ley. 

We're the Swans and we're from Wales,
We want the cup and lots of ales.
Britton, Graham and Sung-Yeung Ki
on our way to Wemb-er-ley. 
Adam (if I knew anything about the Bradford players I'd have written one for them) Graham


Berbaflop?
Did anyone else see the BBC article about Berbatov, in which it referred to him as 'BerbaFlop'? I thought that word started in the mailbox (by a Liverpool fan) but did it originate elsewhere? Or has it simply spread?
Jack (It still isn't witty though) Manchester

Where Do You Hate Going?
Seeing as its a Friday...

It's Scottish League Cup semi-final weekend (stop laughing!) which this year means a trip to Hampden for St Mirren and Celtic. The discussion in the office concluded that everyone hates going to Hampden. The combination of bad view, terrible location and general rubbishness was echoed by all parties.

With this in mind, my question to the esteemed contributors is - Which (rival) ground do you dislike visiting the most? And why?
Craig ( this trips to hampden for league game are particularly bad) RFC Glasgow


What Happened To Bacary Sagna?
Re. Hoges email about Sagna's ability to repel the ball before it's passed to him.

Granted, Arsenal have been generally sloppy this season, but to blame their passing in general on his absolutely shocking form is just wrong.

I've never seen a player become so crap so quickly in such a short space of time. He can't control the ball. His crossing is woeful, just terribly bad. He's forgotten how to tackle. I'm surprised he can still remember how to run. By far, the stand out worst performer for Arsenal this season.

I don't know what's wrong with him. Maybe he's lost his heart, or he's just turned crap. Either way, I'm past caring now. Thanks for your services. Please leave this summer and make way for Jenkinson.
Kiraldo (and I was annoyed with him when he decided to leave my FIFA team a few months back)....


What Makes A Good Goalie?
Watching that Scott Carson howler will bring back some really bad memories for Baggies fans. Carson was perhaps one the worst goalkeepers to ever grace the Premier League. In nearly 3 years at the Albion he made one memorable save (in a 2-1 win against Liverpool) and gave a goal away nearly every week. So many times I have I witnessed him standing there with his hands on his hips looking mystified as he has thrown yet another goal into his net. He used to make me so angry and I am glad he is safely locked away in Turkey and that we now have the fabulous Ben Foster. He is fabulous. Truly tremendous.

However the fact that Carson was ever allowed to become a professional just shows how little is known about what makes a good goalkeeper. De Gea is a case in point. Any fool can make the odd tremendous save by throwing their body around. Good goalkeeping is all about technique. Since January how many goals have Man Utd conceeded where De Gea has parried directly out to a striker. Getting to the ball anybody can do, disposing of it safely i.e. to the side requires technique. De Gea is not and never will be a good goalkeeper just like Carson because ultimately they have no technique. 

David Seaman was a brilliant goalkeeper. More often than not he did not need to make a brilliant saves because his technique and positioning was so good that he was in the right place. Yes there were a couple of errors (Nayim & Ronaldinho) but even the best will get it wrong occasionally. Joe Hart is a quality goalkeeper and yes his arrogance may have led to a couple of errors this season. But, a good keeper must be arrogant, to be able to stay calm, hold the ball and have the belief that if they come off their line they are going to get the ball. 

There is way to much ignorance even from the media about goalkeeping. The wrong skills have been valued. Best goalkeepers I have seen:

Russell Hoult, David Seaman, Ben Foster, Jussi Jasskeleinen, Brad Friedel, Petr Cech, Andy Goram, Shay Given,Nigel Martyn. All a certain type and please do notice why I left Schmeichal off that list. Overrated and actually has a lot to answer for with standard of many current goalkeepers. Even Schmeichal fans would describe him as un-orthodox.Well a good keeper can't be un-orthodox because good keeping is about technique. Schmeichal was lucky to play with people Gary Neville who were always there to whack the ball away after it had bounced randomly off him. Kasey Keller who was a far better keeper, would make save after save only for one to bounce off him and for no defender to be there to clear. If Schmeichal would have played for Leicester or Southampton he would have been found out for the sub par keeper he really was. 
Ben (I could have included Alan Miller and Stuart Naylor in my good keeper list) Baggie. Still laughing at the Villa.


Zaha: Not The Man?
I'd rather have bought Isco or James Rodriguez. Even Viktor Fischer or Alen Halilovic, if real youth were required.

Hate to say it, but Zaha looks an awful lot like a cheap-and-cheerful version of a Champions League quality attacking midfielder. 
Chris MUFC


Wet Tuesday
On a similar theme to Jack in Manchester about Berbaflop on the BBC, I'd advise people to take great care with spreading Football365 and football forum culture to the outside world. 

Last year, against my better judgement, I ventured on to the Daily Mail website to read a heartwarming story about a girl with no legs, who bravely battled back against illness to gain a place on her school football team.

In the comments section, I asked the question I presumed would have been on everyone's lips:

"A truly inspirational story, but could she do it on a wet Tuesday night at Stoke?"

Hundreds red arrows and messages of hate followed. Most probably all deserved.
Jamie (Never Again) Doherty


Pop
Dear TJ.

I hate to point out the obvious but yes, Arsenal have underperformed over the past eight years or so and yes our former players have gone on to win stuff with other clubs.

You may have missed this but Arsenal have a bloody great stadium to pay for.

We have a stadium to pay for and have a debt but then so do United and every season we are farther down the road of clearing that date so I'm afraid there's bugger all chance of Wilshere following so called Arsenal fan Robin Van Persie.

Sorry to burst your bubble
Graham Simons, Gooner, Norf London


Berbaflop
Earliest reference I can find to Berbaflop was a Spurs fan http://spurs.theoffside.com/team-news/dimitar-berbatov-you-prick.html (understandably) annoyed after a summer of Berbatov batting eyes and making pretty at potential suitors. 

More interesting was Jol's quote in the piece "Gifted, yes. But he is not a fighter. Perhaps you need others who are fighters to balance out the team"... Astute observation from the Dutchman.
Sam (wishes we'd have spent the 30m on Bale), Sydney


Flop Flop
Mike, Chelsea, based in Auckland you're wrong about a lot of those players. I'd love to know what you're criteria for success of flop is because frankly I find the following from your list of flops a bit puzzling; Pogba young player who left the league to get more regular football hardly a glittering failure, Deschamps 1 year at the end of his career won an FA Cup wouldn't call him a resounding failure, Barthez 2 Premier Leagues in four years and overall some good performances while the United GK jersey was still a poisoned chalice from memories of Schmeichel, Dacourt was a fans favourite at Leeds where his performances established him the French team and only left because of a falling out with Venables, Koscielny inconsistent yes and prone to brain farts but he has had a good Premier League so far

I could question a few other 'flops' you've listed based on age, your clear dislike of Arsenal players. I would question however why the players I've listed above are considered flops as opposed to players like Franc Quedrue (mid table journey man), Giles Grimandi (pretty average) Flamini (one really good season) who are 'hits'. If you're going to list off who's been a success or not gage how long they lasted, the level they played at or the trophies they won. Don't just base their success in the English game on whether you like them or not. Oh and Stéphane Sessegnon is from Benin. Not born there and plays for France. Was born in Benin and plays for Benin. You could have at least bothered your hole paying attention to the nationality listing seeing as you were on Wikipedia any way instead of lazily going with 'sounds French must be French'.

You said your selection was biased but forgot to forewarn us it was idiotic . 

On a constructive note if we're going to base this on success rate then the best contenders are countries with relatively few. Here's some of the best (success rate in brackets are surely)

Zimbabwe (100%); Benjani Mwaruwari, Bruce Grobbelaar, Peter Ndlovu
Oman (100%); Ali Al Habsi


Admin
Just a small, pedantic point, in response to MagnumPIG (£10m on Coutinho is a waste however)

The reason the likes of Benfica and Porto pick up steals from South America and sell them on for huge profits is probably actually to do with work permit regulations. Exciting stuff huh? 

In short, our regulations here are much stricter than in some other European countries. Another mailboxer may be able to tidy this up with exact figures, but I believe that for someone outside the EU to qualify for a work permit, they need to have played in a certain number of internationals, or an 'exceptional case' may be made for a player on appeal, usually involving a manager appearing before the Depratment for Work and Pensions, dropping to his knees and begging. 

In Portugal, these rules are a lot looser, and the presence of a Portuguse great great grandparent may help swing it too. I think British clubs know about some of these players, but the combination of language, culture and immigration rules mean Portugal (and Holland) are seen as better proving grounds for young South American talent before they take the next step to the 'big leagues'. 
Conrad Wiacek, MUFC


The Spectacle
Adam Shortland. It costs a significant amount of money to televise a football match, and typically television execs., sponsors, clubs, players, et al. all want to achieve the highest possible ratings, and present the best possible spectacle, when a match is televised. Unfortunately, in a milieu in which the FA Cup is widely broadcast abroad (no idea why, it's a joke of competition), that therefore guarantees that matches including United/Chelsea/Arsenal/City etc., particularly when against decent PL opposition, will be televised. It's in the interests of all concerned parties, and present a much better advert for English football than watching a lower league team defend desperately, hoof the ball, and try and score a scrappy goal, on a crap pitch against superior opposition.
Chris MUFC


...Could Adam Shortland in this morning's mailbox please let me know how to watch the Arsenal game this weekend, cos I'm pretty bloody sure it's not on telly. It's also a potential cup upset, which simultaneously backs-up and destroys his argument: if it was on telly it would be the kind of banana-skin tie he wants to watch. But it's not.
Steve Owen


...I agree with Adam Shortland about televised FA Cup matches. Man United have had their last 37 FA Cup ties televised. Yep, 37. In a row. This weekend makes it 38. 

Even as a Liverpool fan, this is in no way the fault of United, but of the appeal to the masses scheduling methodology. Broadcasters bang on about, "The magic of the cup" yet refuse to show it. In fact, United's last non-televised match was against Exeter which is exactly the sort of game that should be shown! 
Lee (as long as it's not on ITV though) LFC


Doppelgangers
We were in Tenerife having a meal and the guy responsible for the bill was the spitting image of Ronald Koeman, he was Belgian so the flemish accent only enhanced the restaurant owners belief that here was the guy who had scored the winning goal at Wembley for his beloved Barcelona delivering their first ever European Cup win, he couldn't have been more excited!

The guy, lets call him Jacques, happily posed for photographs and signed autographs, talked about what a great moment it was for him and how much he loved his time at Barca. He graciously accepted the complimentary bottle of wine and liquors that followed.

Then the bill arrived and he sheepishly turned to me and said "can you get this, I can't ruin this mans evening and the story he'll tell for years by handing him my credit card with Jacques DeClerq on!", knew I shouldn't have ordered the Chateaubriand!
Howard (and we didn't get the business!) Jones


...In response to Phil Pearce in Thursdays mailbox...

I too have an unexpected recognition story resulting in a random persons embarrassment. Unfortunately it's nobody of such great standing as the greatest Ginger Ninja of all time.

Afew years ago my favourite great uncle passed away, and had the brainwave of making me executor of his estate because he deemed me to be the next 'man of the family'...being only in my twenties, when it came time to go through probate, I found myself attending the meetings with my mum as she had a clue what it was all about, and i was the obvious clueless idiot...

Being in Manchester city centre early on the day all the forms were being finalised, we decided to pop for a coffee in one of those 'poncey sofas n armchairs style rip off coffee establishments'. While mum settled her arse in a purple Chesterfield, I did the honours and got mugged for 2 mochas. While stood there all suited n booted with the added suave of black leather jacket (not my usual daytime attire so was feeling unusually cool), I noticed my mam pissing herself in the corner. Once coffees were purchased and my wallet suitably lightened I went to find out what the joy was about on this sombre day. Turns out she'd been observing some poor woman wandering past, spot me from behind in the queue, freeze, dive into her bag for her phone and ring her fella/dad/son/male friend. Through the medium of lip reading mum observed this conversation...

'Hi it's me, no no shush listen. I'm on Deansgate n I've just seen ******* ****** in a coffee shop, I'm looking at him now...no honest I am!!...OK, what shall I say?...OK, yes I've got a pen...ok I'll ask...yes it's definately him!!...OK I'll ring you back.'

Blissfully unaware I'm still queueing for my expensive hot chocolate, apparently she got through the door and within a few steps of nervously tapping me on the shoulder, then I stepped forward and placed my order. Apparently the realisation of my mancunian accent not bring the expected French stopped her from actually making me aware she was stalking me for an autograph...the moment of my half turn, to look at mum laughing she retreated,silently, with a face turning beetroot and quickly scurried off outside...I sauntered over to have my cool destroyed forever, my mum was laughing because I'd been mistaken, from behind in my defence, for the handsome ladykiller that is.... Fabien Barthez :-( the shame
Jeff, Manchester MUFC


...In response to Phil Pearce email the other day about dooplegangers, I was at the villa/Bradford game on Tuesday just gone. Just got into the ground, waiting just past the tunstiles for my mates.

A little kid and his dad passed me, and then lad looked up excitedly and said to his dad 'is that Alan Hutton?

Thankfully his dad put him right straight away but I was absolutely gutted.

Of all the big bald blokes, over all the sh*t footballers, it had to be him. Alan Bloody Hutton!

This very much set the tone of the night for me.
Alex (RIP AVFC) Sheedy


Drew Peacock
So, according to Steven Howard no-one would be stupid enough to call their son 'Drew Peacock'? (Mediawatch, Fri 25/1)

Perhaps this little chap has just picked a team and learned to write rather early.
Tom, Teddington


...Cheers Mediawatch, appears I've achieved fame at last! Just wait til The Sun hears about my mates Ivan O'Toole, Dick Palmer, Don Kiddick and my long lost cousin Buttplug McReacharound. 

Thanks F365!!
Drew Peacock - MUFC, Manchester


We Like To Make It Hard For You...
What's the story with the quiz lads?

Trying to make us all feel stooopid? Or is it just me that only managed to answer 5! Jeez!!!
John Whelan, Dublin


Lolzies
I just stumbled across your article where Iniesta discusses Victor Valdes' decision not to renew his contract with Barcelona. My eyes were immediately drawn to one quote in particular however:

"He's overcome difficult moments and has won five Zamoras (trophy given to the goalkeeper with the lowest goals-to-game record in the Primera Division)."

I think I see what they did there...

Alex Marvez is a Senior NFL Writer for FOXSports.com. He has covered the NFL for the past 18 seasons as a beat writer and is the former president of the Pro Football Writers of America. He also is a frequent host on Sirius XM NFL Radio.
    		        			  		        		 	  		        		 	
 		 	The improbable last-second comebacks of Baltimore and Atlanta in second-round playoff games were another reminder that there is never absolute certainty in the NFL.
  	  
    	Even so, FOXSports.com is going to try and give you the next closest thing heading into this weekend’s conference championship matchups.
  	We’ve ranked all four remaining teams — New England, Baltimore, Atlanta and San Francisco — in 10 categories and rewarded points ranging from best (four) to worst (one). Based upon this, the final totals should reveal which squads will be playing in Super Bowl XLVII
  	Emphasis on should.
  	So who do we think is headed to New Orleans? Continue reading to find out.
  	New England (4): No quarterback has won more postseason games (17) or posted a higher winning percentage (.739 – minimum 15 starts) than Tom Brady. Already the NFL’s all-time postseason leader in completions, Brady is now 227 yards away from surpassing Brett Favre’s all-time postseason mark of 5,855 passing yards.
  	Baltimore (3): When it comes to deep passing accuracy, there is nobody hotter right now than Baltimore’s Joe Flacco. He is averaging a ridiculous 10.8 yards an attempt in two playoff games. A 38-35 double-overtime win over Denver marked Flacco’s fifth career road playoff victory, which is tied with Eli Manning of the New York Giants for the most in NFL history.
  	Atlanta (2): Matt Ryan took a big step toward securing that vaunted “elite” quarterback status with his first playoff win last Sunday against Seattle. Ryan also continued his penchant for clutch play. He has led 22 fourth-quarter/overtime comeback victories in his first five seasons.
  	San Francisco (1): Yup, Jim Harbaugh made the right decision switching from Alex Smith to Colin Kaepernick at midseason. Kaepernick couldn’t have had a better postseason debut than in last Saturday’s 45-31 win over Green Bay. He set the NFL’s all-time single-game rushing record for a quarterback with 181 yards and two scores. Kaepernick added another two scores and 263 yards passing.
  	
   	San Francisco (4): Kaepernick gives San Francisco a running dimension like no other team remaining in the postseason. For meat-and-potato carries, the 49ers have one of the NFL’s most consistent rushers in Frank Gore. He is coming off a 119-yard, one-touchdown effort on 23 carries against the Packers. LaMichael James and Anthony Dixon play complementary roles.
  	New England (3): After having morphed into a pass-first team – and who could blame them with Brady under center – the Patriots are fielding their best rushing attack since Corey Dillon had a 1,600-yard campaign in 2004. Stevan Ridley, who had 1,263 rushing yards in the regular season, continues to lead the way. He is complemented by Danny Woodhead and Shane Vereen, who scored three touchdowns (one rushing, two receiving) in last Sunday’s 41-28 win over Houston.
  	Baltimore (2): Ray Rice rebounded from a two-fumble performance in Baltimore’s playoff opener against Indianapolis by plowing for 131 yards and one touchdown on 30 attempts against Denver. Getting him on track against New England would bode well. The Ravens have a 6-0 playoff record when fielding a 100-yard rusher. Expect a larger role Sunday for swift rookie Bernard Pierce, who had only five carries against Denver after gaining 103 vs. the Colts.
  	Atlanta (1): The Falcons rediscovered their running game against Seattle with Michael Turner and Jacquizz Rodgers combining for 162 yards on 24 carries. Atlanta’s 167 total rushing yards marked the team’s highest output of the season. Turner provides the power; “Quizz” adds speed and shiftiness.
  	Atlanta (4): It’s a pick-your-poison nightmare when trying to slow Atlanta’s plethora of targets. Roddy White (1,351 yards) and Julio Jones (1,198) combined as the NFL’s most productive receiving tandem on one team during the regular season. Tight end Tony Gonzalez remains a matchup nightmare and Harry Douglas is a productive fourth option. If that isn’t enough, the Falcons have rediscovered the screen pass under new offensive coordinator Dirk Koetter.
  	  
    	Baltimore (3): Torrey Smith’s emergence as a lethal deep receiving threat continued against Denver as he embarrassed a future Hall of Fame cornerback in Champ Bailey. Jacoby Jones also has wheels – his 70-yard touchdown catch in the waning seconds sent last Saturday’s game into overtime – and Anquan Boldin may be the NFL’s most physically strong possession receiver. Tight end Dennis Pitta doesn’t post monster numbers but he’s good for two or three catches a game that move the chains.
  	New England (2): The loss of Rob Gronkowski (broken forearm) eliminates the two tight-end coverage nightmare that his pairing with Aaron Hernandez provided. But it’s not like Brady is bereft of weapons. Wes Welker extended his postseason streak of games with at least six receptions to eight with an eight-catch, 131-yard showing against Houston. Welker and fellow wideout Brandon Lloyd both had 100-yard efforts against Baltimore in Week 3 of the regular season.
  	San Francisco (1): Season-ending knee injuries suffered by Mario Manningham and Kyle Williams thinned out San Francisco’s wide receiver unit, but Michael Crabtree has picked up the slack with a breakthrough campaign. Crabtree had nine catches for 119 yards and two touchdowns. Just like last season, the 49ers have re-discovered tight end Vernon Davis during the playoffs. Davis gashed the Packers down the seam for a 44-yard grab that led to a touchdown.
  	Offensive line
  	San Francisco (4): This is the nastiest unit left in the playoffs. All three first-round picks – left tackle Joe Staley, left guard Mike Iupati and right tackle Anthony Davis – are living up to their lofty draft status. Despite playing with an injured right arm, Staley did an outstanding job keeping Packers outside linebacker Clay Matthews in check. At 6-foot-8 and 300 pounds, right guard Alex Boone is a load when he pulls.
  	New England (3): Long-time position coach Dante Scarnecchia has worked his magic once again with this unit. Nate Solder (left) and Sebastian Vollmer (right) have emerged as one of the NFL’s top young tackle combinations. Although hampered by injuries for a good chunk of the regular season, Logan Mankins is still a top-flight left guard.
  	Atlanta (2): Like Scarnecchia, new Falcons offensive line coach Pat Hill deserves praise for Atlanta’s improvement in 2012. Left tackle Sam Baker has made the most strides. Albeit the Seahawks were playing without their best pass-rusher, Chris Clemons (knee), it was still surprising that the Falcons didn’t surrender a sack and rushed so effectively against one of the NFL’s most physical defenses. One player to watch Sunday is Falcons rookie right guard Peter Konz. He held up well against Seattle but could get targeted for one-on-one matchups against 49ers stud defensive lineman Justin Smith.
  	
   	Baltimore (1): A unit that was a liability in mid-December is a strength after several personnel changes. Left tackle Bryant McKinnie, who has squandered Hall of Fame potential by being too undisciplined off the field to control his weight, is again playing at a high level now that he’s back in shape. Jah Reid’s season-ending toe injury led to Baltimore substituting McKinnie and shifting Michael Oher to right tackle where he is better suited. The return of right guard Marshal Yanda (ankle) also provided a huge boost. The Ravens have surrendered only two sacks and rushed for 325 yards in two playoff games.
  	San Francisco (4): Even with a partially torn triceps, Justin Smith still sets the pace for San Francisco’s defense. It wasn’t an accident that outside linebacker Aldon Smith’s sack numbers dropped when Smith was sidelined during the final two regular-season games. The 49ers also have the capability to rush star inside linebackers NaVorro Bowman and Patrick Willis. A-gap blitzes gave the Packers fits.
  	Baltimore (3): Terrell Suggs, who missed the first six games with an Achilles tendon injury, finally started looking like his old self against the Broncos. Suggs was a terror with 10 tackles and two sacks. Fellow outside linebacker Paul Kruger has emerged as a nice pass-rushing complement. Kruger had a team-high nine sacks during the regular season and added another 2.5 against the Colts.
  	New England (2): Pressuring the quarterback remains a collective effort for the Patriots. Linebacker Rob Ninkovich, a one-time journeyman whose penchant for big plays is reminiscent of Tedy Bruschi, led the team with eight sacks. Rookie end Chandler Jones ranks second with six, although his health entering Sunday’s game is in question after he was forced to leave against Houston with an ankle injury.
  	Atlanta (1): How much John Abraham means to Atlanta’s pass rush became evident again vs. Seattle after the NFL’s active sack leader was forced out when he aggravated an ankle injury late in the second quarter. The inability to affect Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson in the second half almost cost the Falcons the victory. Even if not completely healthy, Abraham is expected to play Sunday. No other Atlanta defender had more than four sacks during the regular season.
  	Run defense
  	  
    	San Francisco (4): The 49ers had the best regular-season ranking among the remaining playoff teams, having surrendered an average of 94.2 yards a game and a mere seven touchdowns. But San Francisco wasn’t nearly as dominant as last season when only three opponents posted 100-yard rushing games, none more than 124 yards. The 49ers were gashed for 136-plus yards five times in 2012 and had a 1-3-1 record in those contests.
  	New England (3): A strong front seven led by defensive end Vince Wilfork and inside linebacker Jerod Mayo paces the Patriots. Mayo notched a whopping 184 tackles during the regular season. New England also has benefitted from the continuing development of young defensive linemen Kyle Love and Justin Francis. After getting trampled for 180 rushing yards by San Francisco in a Week 15 loss, the Patriots held their next three opponents (Jacksonville, Miami and Houston) to a 77-yard average.
  	Atlanta (2): The Falcons were up for the challenge presented by Seattle’s read-option attack, holding All-Pro running back Marshawn Lynch to 46 yards on 19 carries. Kaepernick, though, presents a much greater threat than Wilson, whose 60 rushing yards last Sunday came on scrambles rather than keepers out of the read-option. Kaepernick will be trying to duplicate the regular-season success of Carolina dual-threat quarterback Cam Newton, who accounted for 703 yards from scrimmage (201 rushing and 502 passing) and six touchdowns in two games against the Falcons.
  	Baltimore (1): A streak of nine consecutive seasons with a top-nine ranking against the run came to a screeching halt in 2012. The Ravens surrendered 1,965 yards, which is the most in the franchise’s 17-year history. But as some key defenders like inside linebacker Ray Lewis and defensive end Haloti Ngata got healthier, the Ravens began showing significant improvement. Dannell Ellerbe emerged in Lewis’ absence.
  	Atlanta (4): The offseason acquisition of cornerback Asante Samuel from Philadelphia for a seventh-round draft pick was a steal in several ways. Not only did he rebound from a disappointing 2011 campaign, Samuel provided an outspoken form of veteran leadership that was lacking until his arrival. Safeties William Moore and Thomas DeCoud fed off that energy and came into their own, combining for 151 tackles and 10 interceptions during the regular season. The unit was able to weather the loss of cornerback Brent Grimes, Atlanta’s 2012 franchise player who suffered a torn Achilles tendon in the season-opener.
  	San Francisco (3): The only postseason safety tandem playing as well as Moore and DeCoud are San Francisco’s Dashon Goldson and Donte Whitner. Goldson’s nose for the football earned him his “Hawk” nickname. Whitner is playing better than he ever did with Buffalo, where he spent five seasons after being the No. 8 overall pick in the 2006 draft. Another player who has improved under 49ers defensive coordinator Vic Fangio is cornerback Tarell Brown, who had a 39-yard interception return against Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers that helped lead to San Francisco’s second touchdown.
  	
   	Baltimore (2): The Ravens survived the loss of top cornerback Lardarius Webb (ACL) thanks to strong seasons by Cary Williams and Corey Graham. Graham’s interception of Denver quarterback Peyton Manning led to Justin Tucker’s game-winning field goal. Free safety Ed Reed hasn’t provided the type of big plays lately that will ultimately land him in the Hall of Fame. Strong safety Bernard Pollard is a hammer but sometimes gets into trouble for being too aggressive.
  	New England (1): The midseason trade with Tampa Bay for cornerback Aqib Talib upgraded the secondary. Devin McCourty also has excelled since shifting from cornerback to free safety. Three of McCourty’s team-high five interceptions during the regular season came in the end zone. This unit remains prone to miscommunication and breakdowns, although far less than earlier in the season.
  	Atlanta (4): There’s another “Matty Ice” on the roster besides Ryan. Matt Bryant connected on the 49-yard field goal that gave Atlanta a 30-28 victory over Seattle. Bryant has proven himself one of the NFL’s most clutch kickers during his 11-year NFL career. Falcons punter Matt Bosher, who also handles kickoffs, must rebound from a poor showing against the Seahawks. Special-teams coordinator Keith Armstrong has drawn consideration for head coaching vacancies.
  	Baltimore (3): If Sunday’s game comes down to the wire again, the Ravens won’t be worrying about another choke from their kicker thanks to Justin Tucker’s emergence. Since supplanting Billy Cundiff – the goat of last season’s AFC title game for shanking a 32-yard field goal – Tucker has connected on 32 of 35 attempts. His 27-yard kick as time expired helped Baltimore defeat New England, 31-30, in September. Baltimore, though, must shore the coverage errors that allowed Denver’s Trindon Holliday to return a kickoff and a punt for touchdowns. Jacoby Jones earned Pro Bowl honors after returning an NFL-high two kickoffs for touchdowns.
  	New England (2): Matthew Slater’s special-teams prowess has earned him two straight Pro Bowl berths. The honor is well earned. New England’s opponents had meager averages in punt (6.7 yards) and kickoff returns (20.5) during the regular season with no touchdowns scored. But like the Ravens, New England must rebound from a shaky showing against Houston. The Patriots yielded a 94-yard kickoff return to open the game and a 32-yard Zoltan Mesko punt gave the Texans good field position just before halftime. Houston converted both possessions into field goals. Mesko did have two punts of 60-plus yards and was consistent throughout the regular season. The Patriots are one of nine teams to have registered a punt and kickoff return for touchdowns in 2012. After missing six of his first 25 field goals, Stephen Gostkowski has now connected on 10 consecutive attempts.
  	San Francisco (1): As if a stout defense wasn’t enough of a hindrance for opponents, the 49ers field the NFC’s top punter in Andy Lee. The situation isn’t as rosy at kicker, where David Akers missed 13 field goals during the regular season. 49ers head coach Jim Harbaugh has decided to stick with Akers, whose struggles are believed to stem from complications following offseason surgery for a double hernia. The 49ers signed Cundiff to compete with Akers heading into the postseason. Cundiff remains on the roster, but Akers kicked against Green Bay and converted on his lone field-goal try. Backup cornerback C.J. Spillman recovered a muffed punt return deep inside Green Bay territory and registered a great solo tackle later in the game on another punt. Ted Ginn Jr. is a dangerous returner but hasn’t made as much of an impact as last season.
  	  
  	New England (4): If the Patriots run the table and win Super Bowl XLVII, Bill Belichick will tie the late Tom Landry for the most postseason victories (20) in NFL history. Belichick is 18-7 in the postseason with three championship rings, although he has lost in both of New England’s last two Super Bowl appearances. Offensive coordinator Josh McDaniels is making people forget what a failure he was as head coach in Denver with the way his unit has performed.
  	Baltimore (3): John Harbaugh has joined Chuck Knox and Bill Cowher as the only head coaches to have ever reached the playoffs in each of their first five seasons. Baltimore’s 61 victories since Harbaugh was hired rank only behind New England (63) in that span. Harbaugh’s decision to replace offensive coordinator Cam Cameron with Jim Caldwell in mid-December is paying dividends. Dean Pees is the team’s fourth different defensive coordinator since Harbaugh arrived. Two of his predecessors – Rex Ryan (New York Jets) and Chuck Pagano (Indianapolis) – are now NFL head coaches.
  	San Francisco (2): Jim Harbaugh is the eighth head coach in NFL history to reach a conference or league championship in his first two seasons (the late Paul Brown holds the record with Cleveland from 1950 to 1955). Harbaugh and offensive coordinator Greg Roman, who emerged as a head coaching candidate himself earlier this month, deserve high marks for Kaepernick’s development and salvaging Smith’s career the previous season before his benching.
  	Atlanta (1): Head coach Mike Smith flies under the radar, but the Falcons have posted a 57-27 overall record since his 2008 hiring. Atlanta’s .679 winning percentage in that span is the second-highest in the NFL behind New England (.729). Smith, though, wasn’t getting the respect he deserves because Atlanta lost its opening playoff game in three prior seasons under his watch. The streak ended against Seattle. The hiring of two new coordinators – Dirk Koetter (offense) and Mike Nolan (defense) – proved huge upgrades in 2012.
  	Baltimore (4): Like the New York Giants and Green Bay the previous two seasons, the Ravens are an example of a team floundering in mid-December before catching fire. Lewis’ return and announcement that this will be his final season provided a huge spark. The Ravens enter Sunday’s game with confidence, having defeated New England in September and pushing the Patriots to the brink of elimination in last season’s AFC title game.
  	New England (3): The Patriots are almost invincible at home during the playoffs. New England has a 7-1 all-time record in AFC title games, including a 4-0 mark under Belichick. Brady improved to 11-2 in home playoff games with last Sunday’s win over Houston.
  	
   	Atlanta (2): The Falcons are set to host an NFC title game for the first time in the franchise’s 47-season history. Ryan has a 34-6 career record inside the Georgia Dome. There is actually less pressure surrounding the Falcons this week than entering the Seahawks game because Atlanta finally got over the hump and won in the playoffs for the first time since 2004.
  	San Francisco (1): The 49ers are a better team than the one that reached last season’s NFC title game. As a second-year quarterback, there were questions whether Kaepernick was ready for the pressure that comes with being in the playoffs. There are no more doubts after his brilliant performance against Green Bay. Playing inside a difficult domed environment will provide another challenge. Kaepernick is 2-2 on the road since becoming San Francisco’s starter.
  	Final point totals: New England 27, Baltimore 25, San Francisco 25, Atlanta 23
  	Super Bowl projection: New England vs. San Francisco.

Bummed out that the 2012 fantasy football campaign is kaput? You’re preaching to the choir. As one who writes about the rotisserie world for a living, you would think the interval between the end of NFL regular season and start of spring training would be a welcomed respite. Not the case, as the sabbatical forces me to engage in dreaded endeavors like conversations with friends, going out on dates, catching up on television shows and other activities that constitute what most call “having a life.” Basically, my nightmare.
  	If you share this sentiment, we have a going-away pigskin present for you. To keep that fantasy thirst satiated until pitchers and catchers report, here is next season’s upper echelon of players, along with performers that fell just short of reaching this stratum:
  	
 	See who the hottest names are as teams hunt for new head coaches.
 
 	One of the toughest omissions on our list, as Beast Mode submitted his finest season in his six-year career with 1,590 yards on the terrain and 12 total touchdowns. Plus, you can’t put a price on Lynch’s ongoing comedic Skittles-on-the-sideline routine. (Sadly, my attempt to replicate this awesomeness by rewarding our co-ops with Reese's cups after solid projects has been futile.) Unfortunately, Lynch’s off-the-field issues last summer might translate to a four-game suspension to begin 2013, leaving him out of our first round. If the Seattle back is able to avoid Judge Goodell’s gavel, reinsert Lynch into this elite tier.
  	Dez Bryant, Cowboys 
 	Don’t laugh. The mix of Bryant’s strong second half (50 receptions, 879 yards, 10 touchdowns) with the unbridled fervor from Cowboys fans could correlate to the maligned wideout going in the early second round next summer. Bryant’s good, but he’s not that good…yet.
  	Chris Johnson, Titans 
 	Rarely does a 1,240-yard rusher disappoint his contingent, and perhaps that designation is too caustic in regards to Johnson’s 2012 performance. Alas, it would be erroneous to say his proprietors were satisfied with their selection, as Johnson’s inconsistency turned his starting status into a weekly deliberation. Note that Johnson had five games with 120 rushing yards or more this season. In that same breath, he also managed five outings with 28 yards or less. This feast-or-famine approach is fine for a third-round pick. For a supposed cornerstone of a fantasy franchise? Not so much.
  	Matt Forte, Bears 
 	I think we all hold Forte in a paramount view, yet the Bears back has made just 10 visits to the Promised Land in the past two seasons combined. That’s not getting it done, son.
  	Peyton Manning, Broncos 
 	Manning delivered everything his owners could have imagined and more this season: 400 completions, over 4,650 yards, 37 touchdowns and just 11 picks (three which came in the Georgia Dome Debacle in Week 2). These figures were good for the sixth-highest output among quarterbacks in standard formats, with that ranking elevating to fourth-best in PPR leagues. So why is the 6’5” field general with a laser-rocket arm on the outside looking in? For one, the man’s medical past does not convey longevity, and Manning will be 37 at the start of next season. Thanks to new remedial methods, players’ permanence continues to be expanded, but the last I checked, Father Time remains undefeated. Additionally, unlike running backs, serviceable signal callers can be attained relatively easily, as five of the top 10 fantasy arms owned an average draft position in the fifth round or later. As a personal investor in Manning in three different leagues this year, I can attest to his Mile-High magnificence. However, his prestige does not associate to a first-round pick in 2013.
  	Rob Gronkowski, Patriots 
 	The chasm between Gronkowski and his colleagues (other than Jimmy Graham) is so vast that the argument could be made for this preeminent standing. Nevertheless, despite the delight deriving from yelling “GRONK!” at the top of your lungs when the adolescent behemoth scores for your team, the New England tight end did suffer two serious ailments in a 10-month span, raising an injury flag over the 23-year-old.
  	Doug Martin, Buccaneers 
 	The Muscle Hamster, who outscored every running back not named Adrian Peterson, outside of the first round? Blasphemy!
  	Pump the breaks before you scribe that hate mail, muchacho. Martin supported a robust rushing mark of 90.9 yards per game, and his 11 ground trips to pay dirt were tied for third-best in the NFC. Likewise, Martin was one of the more active backs in the receiving arena, hauling in 49 balls for 472 yards and a score. So why the animosity? Martin’s season stats are embellished by a two-week bonanza against the Vikings and Raiders, brandishing over 486 total yards and six end-zone excursions in that span. Withdraw that radiance, and suddenly the rookie’s harvest looks slightly more pedestrian over 14 games (1,068 rushing yards, 272 receiving yards, six touchdowns). And though I’m not the biggest proponent of this theory, I’m also superstitious enough not to discount the dreaded sophomore slump. In the 11-15 range, Martin deserves a gander, but you’re dancing with the devil by selecting the Boise State product any higher.
  	
 	Megatron gathered the headlines, and rightfully so. However, it warrants mentioning that, in PPR leagues, Marshall finished just eight points behind Calvin Johnson thanks to doubling up the Detroit receiver in scores (11 for Marshall, five for Johnson). In fact, Marshall’s 118 grabs for over 1,500 yards, to go along with the aforementioned touchdowns, placed the Bears primary target more than 30 points ahead of his nearest competition in PPR formats, with Dallas’ Bryant ranking third and Cincinnati’s A.J. Green fourth. Though not worthy of a first-round snag, Marshall is undoubtedly the second-best wideout available in next year’s draft.
  	Darren McFadden/ Maurice Jones-Drew 
 	FACT: Since entering the league in 2008, Run DMC has spent 29 percent of his team’s games in sweats on the sideline. Not exactly the stability you’re looking for out of an alleged high-end commodity.
  	As for Jones-Drew…anyone else calling shenanigans on the timing of MJD’s ankle surgery? Keep in mind, Jones-Drew was entangled in a lengthy and acrimonious holdout during training camp, so is it that much of a reach to assume he prolonged the procedure in order to miss offseason workouts? And if this claim seems unnecessarily malicious, I didn’t even have Jones-Drew on any team this season. Can only imagine the disgust spewing from this paragraph if I handed the mic to MJD proprietors.
  	Robert Griffin III, Redskins 
 	Concededly, by far the most controversial non-inclusion on our list. Don’t believe the figures from Griffin were an aberration this fall; if anything, the former Heisman winner’s passing production should improve with a full year of Pierre Garcon and the return of Fred Davis (and if not Davis, at least a viable tight end whose initials aren’t “Logan Paulsen.”
  	Unfortunately, a majority of Griffin’s worth stems from his aptitude on the soil (815 rushing yards, seven touchdowns). Expect those numbers to significantly decrease, with Mike Shanahan and company pulling the reins on their quarterback’s rush forays in order to preserve his health. I still see the Washington arm as a top-10 player at his position, but there’s too much inherent risk drafting Griffin at this level. However, there is an upshot to Griffin’s cutback in rush attempts…
 	…with Morris the beneficiary to amplified action in the Washington offense. I’m slightly concerned that the heightened workload (335 attempts, third-most in the league) might lend itself to injury next season, yet Morris is young enough that these anxieties should be alleviated. What impressed me most from the rookie rusher was his consistently, as Morris failed to surpass 76 rushing yards just twice this season. You would hope he becomes more involved in the receiving forum (a meager 11 catches in 2012), but hard to complain about 13 touchdowns.
  	No. 11 - Jamaal Charles, Chiefs 
 	Denver’s Manning and Minnesota’s Peterson have garnered attention for illustrious rejuvenations from injuries, but how about some love for Charles? This was a guy who entered 2011 as the fourth overall fantasy pick after posting 1,467 rushing yards, 468 receiving yards and eight touchdowns in 2010. Yet, in preliminary pieces looking forward to the 2013 fantasy calendar, Charles is nowhere to be found in spite of amassing 1,500 rushing yards, 236 receiving yards and six touchdowns. Not bad for someone who had to work with Brady Quinn the majority of the year.
  	It appears Andy Reid will be in the Arrowhead saddle for 2013. While Reid’s usage, or lack thereof, of LeSean McCoy will be referenced as reason to avoid Charles (more on this in a moment), I still anticipate the former All-Pro back as the, ahem, “chief” component of Kansas City’s offensive assault.
  	
 	Not the biggest advocate of taking receivers in the first round, and highly unlikely the Detroit wideout replicates his record-setting standard from this season. Still, got to pay homage to Megatron. Only tidbit I have involves the Lions’ search for a serviceable receiving complement, as many accept that Johnson could be capable of more if Motown had someone to shift the adversarial focus. Don’t subscribe to this notion, as Johnson’s targets would take a significant decline and thus leave him with fewer prospects. Fortunately for Johnson managers, the Lions are far from attaining this goal, so Johnson should continue his conquests.
  	No. 9 - LeSean McCoy, Eagles 
 	Might seem like a precipitous drop for an entity that some envisioned as the top back of 2012. Frankly, I think this spot is generous, given McCoy’s failure to get into the end zone (a scant two rushing touchdowns this year versus 17 land dives in 2011) and the emergence of backup Bryce Brown. And while we’re here, there’s a universal misnomer that McCoy was misused this season by the Eagles, which states the Philly back was left in the cold. Hold on, sports fans, truth bomb heading in your direction: in 15 games in 2011, McCoy was bestowed 321 touches (273 rushes, 48 receptions) for an average of 21.4 opportunities per outing. In 12 contests this past campaign, the total workload was 254 ventures (200 carries, 54 grabs) equating to…21.2 touches per game. Can’t say that comprises a misappropriation of assets.
  	However, assuming Michael Vick is not under center in the City of Brotherly Love next season and the Philadelphia front line is healthy, McCoy can rectify his 2011 form. Though he’s far from a lights-out pick, McCoy has enormous upside for a player at this juncture of the draft.
  	No. 8 - Cam Newton, Panthers 
 	Received quite a bit of derision following Newton’s early-season struggles after writing the following in our annual Draft Guide:
  	“A hearty contingent believes the former Heisman winner’s statistical onslaught was a bit of an aberration and that regression is inevitable, verified by his standing outside the overall top 20 on a multitude of preseason projections. Undoubtedly, replicating 14 rushing touchdowns might be too tall of an order. Then again, if Newton was capable of such carnage with just an abbreviated assimilation period in 2011 thanks to the lockout, imagine the wrath he can inflict with an entire offseason under his belt.”
  	Well guess what, haters? Thanks to a second-half revival, Newton finished as the fourth-highest scorer in standard leagues this season, so swallow that scoreboard justice.
  	If Newton gets any kind of receiving help this offseason, the third-year man could be an unstoppable force. Only apprehension regarding Newton is the vehemence of tales depicting his abrasiveness in the locker room. Usually we disregard most matters of this nature, yet the staggering amount of boorishness in accusations of Newton’s character almost gives you pause in building a team around an asserted tyrant.
  	No. 7 - C.J. Spiller, Bills 
 	Considering he split substantial time with Fred Jackson, Spiller finishing as the seventh-highest scorer at this position in standard leagues (sixth-best in PPR formats) is nothing short of astonishing. Projected as the primary back in Buffalo next season, Spiller has the duo dexterity of a Marshall Faulk and wouldn’t surprise me if he finished 2013 as the top back in professional pigskin. Even if Jackson returns to the Bills, Spiller is no worse than an early second-round selection.
  	No. 6 – Drew Brees, Saints 
 	Twenty turnovers were disconcerting, but despite these miscues, Brees finished as the top-rated fantasy arm in 2012 thanks to 43 touchdowns and over 5,175 yards. The return of Sean Payton, along with an improved defense, should ease up on the flight attempts from New Orleans, which should help Brees maintain his strength and stability throughout the season. As close to a “sure-thing” as one can obtain in a fantasy draft, even more so than…
  	
 	Aside from playing outdoors, Brady has every advantage over Brees: better receivers, two superior tight ends, sound running game and strong defense that doesn’t put the New England offense in compromising positions. In short, Brady just has a higher ceiling than Brees. So why is Brees considered more of a can’t-miss selection than Brady? Three words: Bernard Karmell Pollard. (That sound you just heard was every Pats backer muttering an obscenity.)
  	No. 4 - Ray Rice, Ravens 
 	Selecting Rice is like going to Subway for lunch. No one is ever excited to be heading there, can’t say you’re blown away by its presentation and you certainly won’t be bragging about getting it later on. Yet it always leaves you satisfied, and you certainly could have made a worse choice in this pursuit. And yes, this made a lot more sense when I was eating Subway last week.
  	No. 3 - Arian Foster, Texans 
 	Foster possessors voiced their concern that Foster hit a wall in the second half, a claim that was unsubstantiated. Granted, Foster had five rushing touchdowns in the last two months versus 10 in the first eight weeks. However, when subtracting his Week 16 aberration (just 15 yards due to an irregular heartbeat scare), the Houston back averaged 91 rushing yards per game in the second half, comparable to his 96.3 yards mark in Weeks 1-8. The mileage on Foster is quickly escalating (956 carries, 159 receptions), but still think Foster has one more season before the wheels start coming off.
  	No. 2 - Aaron Rodgers, Packers 
 	No running game. Primary targets Greg Jennings and Jordy Nelson spent significant time on the sidelines. Jermichael Finley continued to underperform while trying to undermine the Green Bay quarterback’s standing in the locker room. A shuffled and susceptible offensive line. And all Rodgers did was toss for nearly 4,300 yards and 39 aerial scores. What else is there to say? Cat can ball.
  	No. 1 - Adrian Peterson, Vikings
 	I’d try to warn over possible stamina vulnerability, but such counsel has the same chance as a defender in the open field against Peterson. All Day, all hail.

Rooney Moan
ITV summed up last night just why I feel so compelled to point out how average Rooney is. Incase you didn't see it, the adverts before the United game were "Fulham travel to Old Trafford....and Wayne awaited them". They showed some clips of the game and then after said something like "And Rooney was back on form" then proceeded to show his goal and nothing else. Strachan spouted a load of tosh like him being a top top player who makes others play blah blah.

No mention of Giggs. No mention of how actually dire Rooney was. He played terrible overall but had one good moment and then gets all the praise. Unbelievable! 
Silvio Dante (again)


Explaining Sagna's Poor Form
Regarding Kiraldo's email about Sagna, i think a lot can be put down to the leg break. Sometimes players come back well from injuries, i.e. Wilshere, but a lot don't like Djibril Cisse, Ramsey and Cech, who has never been that good again. Maybe you can put it down to seeing your leg at an angle or something. It can effect a player in a lot of ways; you miss a year or more of playing and fall behind in skill and pace etc, and also maybe fear of something horrendous happening again it detracts from their effort either consciously or sub consciously. In years gone by I would have baulked at seeing him go, but after warming to Jenkinson maybe it's time Sagna went back home to the easier French league or something.
Steve (in Arsene we trust!) Australia


Don't Judge Wilf By His Stats
One thing that really annoys me, and has steadily increased over the last few years, is the judging of a player based on his stats. The all mighty statistic has over taken actually watching a player and forming an opinion based on what you see. I will admit I like to annoy Liverpool fans with the fact Stewart Downing went so long without an assist but it was actually watching him be atrocious in games that made me feel comfortable slating him.

The thing which has me writing in now is obviously Zaha's transfer to United and the inevitable stat check by everyone and their dog, 5 goals and 5 assists for a winger in 32 games is proof 15 million is way over priced apparently. This ignores the fact he has played over a hundred games at a championship club and he's only 20. It's accepted that if you buy a young English player you pay an inflated price without bringing up obvious examples.The thing that really annoys me is where's the stats for wingers who beat a player or two and lay the ball off to a player who then passes the ball to the forward who scores? Where's the stats for corners, free kicks or throw ins won which led to goals? The stats for intelligent movement to pull defenders out of position? Players who win penalties are awarded assists but someone who beats 9 men and squares the ball to a forward who misses an open goal doesn't get anything.Would anyone say Raheem Sterling (2 goals 2 assists) hasn't been good enough this season?

What I'm not trying to say is Zaha will definitely be a success, I haven't seen nearly enough of him to judge, but what I have seen is undoubted potential and will reserve judgement until i see more of him myself .There is a reason clubs have people watched in person before signing them. I know it might seem odd to people who spend their Friday setting up their fantasy team, but there's more aspects to winning games than goals and assists that are just as important. Sorry for the rant but what I really wanted to say was put some trousers on, put down the laptop and actually watch some football and judge players properly.
GD, Dublin


On Schmeichel, Keller And De Gea
In response to Ben Baggie, Schmeichel wasn't a world class goalkeeper? I really shouldn't bite at such drivel, but alas I am. You have your opinion about what makes a good goalkeeper, an opinion you seem to think is the only one that matters. My opinion, and I think it's a view shared by many, is that a good goalkeeper is one who keeps the ball out of the goal, hence the name 'goalkeeper'. Schmeichel has the highest ratio of clean sheets:games ratio of any goalkeeper in the premier league era (except John O'Shea of course) playing behind a defence that was generally not as good as the one Seaman played behind. 

So what if he was unorthodox? Michael Johnson's running technique was constantly criticised throughout his career, yet he set world record after world record. I would argue that it takes a lot more than good technique to make a goalkeeper, Schmeichel's ability to organise his defence was second to none, his presence was second to none, his reflexes were second to none, I could go on but I won't because it's absurd to suggest that Schmeichel wasn't a world class goalkeeper, are you saying he wouldn't have made the West Brom team?
Fred, Belfast


...Ben (I could have included Alan Miller and Stuart Naylor in my good keeper list) Baggie. Still laughing at the Villa.

You had me. You really did. I read your whole piece with an open mind thinking "MY GOD MAYBE THE KID HAS SOMETHING!" in a 20's Chicago style voice. And maybe what you said was bait. SCHMEICHEL!!!!! SCHMEICHEL!!!! The behemoth of goalkeeping. The god of thunder. I used to be a staunch ABU but even as a kid I had to admit that Utd fans had every right to be arrogant over their keeper. Overrated? Maybe, I don't really care about that never ending argument, we can't ever prove an answer. 

I remember Schmeichel pulling unreal saves, making himself REALLY BIG and in my opinion him being a total dick to Gary Neville made him a better defender than he ever had to be. It wasn't cause Neville was saving his bacon, Schmeichel demanded big d*ckish standards but hes got the medels to show for it. The epitome of a goalkeeper that defenders feel confident in front of. Goalkeeping is much more than technique pal, its about leadership too. And leadership by technique.

The worst thing I can remember about Peter was that he had a tendancy to be lobbed a few times. Aside from that I can't think of a fault. Kasey Keller may have probably been better for United but Peter also did pretty well in 92 for Denmark, a team that were definitely not considered among the greats (you might want to look that one up). I thought your argument was really thinking outside the box and something to rejoice, but I just couldn't get past this obvious "controversial" pick. 

Past his peak Schmeichel also played for struggling Aston Villa and Man City teams that were flirting in the relegation game. And they stayed up, in an era were Leicester and Southampton were about the same standard, or a little worse or a little better. 

You are a brilliant troll. I am still writing trying to remember the awesomeness of Russell Hoult. He was never top calibre. Good obviously, but never overly wanted.

I imagine there'll be a few of these.
Dave (I can't believe you forgot about Bobby Mimms), Ireland


...Sorry, sorry... Hold on.. Ben, Baggie, did you just say that Kasey Keller was a better keeper than Peter Schmeichal? 

You may very well be still laughing a Villa my friend but I for one am still laughing at you!
Leon, Basel.


...Your argument is so played out it all it highlights is your over-riding desire to be a contrarian and your general lack of respect for the readership of this website.

David de Gea is 22 years old. Not only is he 22 years old and playing in the Premier League but he's 22 years old and first choice keeper at Manchester United. Who are top of the league. And before you say it; they have a back four comprised of perma-crocked young pretenders; a central partnership whose salad days are far behind them; and no one in midfield tasked with the specific job of screening said back for. Add to that a new country, new team mates, a new language, new league and the tiny matter of the pressure cooker that is Old Trafford and what do you get?

A shaky handed, bumbling, clanger-prone experiment bleeding goals on the reg? No you don't. What you actually get is a surprisingly calm and focused young player who on his is capable of keeping out match-winners on his own. And he's only 22. I mean come on man - no technique? You think that's all reflexes do you? No hand-to-eye involved, no positional awareness to those 'tremendous saves'? Mate have you seen his footwork? Don't use a term like 'technique' when you clearly think all that means is 'one's ability to catch' (ps ,Nigel Martyn was not afraid a parry for the cameras).

It's true he's not great at crosses or necessarily communicating with his defenders but - and I know I'm going on here - he's twenty sodding two. He's better than last year, he'll be better next year. Right now, as David James did most of his career, he's winning Utd far more games than he's costing them so let's not write of a 22yr old for not being Buffon quite yet eh mate?

To be honest I could go on but my girlfriend's taking me out for a Thai (swag) and I think I've made my point. Someone else can address can address the 'Schmeichel was over-rated' angle for me. 
Simon (hang on, do you even print mails on the weekend?) CFC 


...Kasey Keller was a far better keeper than Peter Schmeichel? Not even just better, but far better? Ben, that is hilarious. 
I know that one youtube clip isn't a fair representation of an entire career, but about 1.50 into this Keller does something Schmeichel would never have done (and if he did, it definitly wouldn't have been his fault)

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8V4SwZkq1O8
Begbie


...Ben Baggie; the ideal goalkeeper which you seem to be describing is one who is consistent, reliable and composed. Given this, I cannot believe that you are trying to put Ben Foster into this category; a goalkeeper who frequently makes a hash of 'routine' goalkeeping and who is constantly tense. He was allowed to leave Old Trafford because when he was given a chance in the first team he made a series of nervous errors; he was all over the place, and with all respect he couldn't handle the pressure. I simply could not put the words 'composed' and 'reliable' alongside 'Ben Foster'. However, he is a fine shot-stopper. In fact, Foster is a perfect example of the 'hero' goalkeeper whose reputation has been founded on great shot-stopping performances, rather than solidity. 'Fools', as you call them. 

Whilst I don't disagree with every point you make, your central argument is, I think, wrong. Having been a goalkeeper for many years, I think I can say with confidence that goalkeeping is actually mainly about presence. This is both the mental fortitude which you alluded to with Joe Hart's arrogance and the physical size to intimidate strikers and cover the goal more easily. I agree that the right technique does make things easier, and being composed helps with decision making. But you simply cannot disregard the physical aspect of goalkeeping. Seaman was a great keeper but in the last five or six years of his career he turned into something of an embarrassment, because whilst his technique, reliability and composure were still there, he became cumbersome and immobile. 

For my money, Van der Sar and Cech are both easily the best Premier League goalkeepers of the last ten years, for whilst they possessed all of the technique and composure which you hold in such regard, they were also big, physical keepers who possessed the raw goalkeeping attributes, such as agility and quick reflexes. In the final analysis, saving shots is what goalkeeping is about.

I can only hope that your tongue has spent much of its time in your cheek.
Joe (claiming Kasey Keller was better than Peter Schmeichel is possibly the most mental thing I've ever heard) O'Grady

Maya Moore has already made her mark on the WNBA. That means the next question for the league is, what will Brittney Griner bring?
By Joan Niesen on December 5, 2012PRINT 
Maya Moore was late. She ducked into the Minnesota Timberwolves' first preseason game at the Target Center this October just after tip-off, the brim of her black hat pulled low and her 54-year-old mother in tow. It didn't take long for the crowd to notice.
 Within minutes, an injured Kevin Love had abandoned the Timberwolves bench in favor of a front-row seat along the baseline next to Moore and her mother. At halftime, a line of fans snaked through the aisle; Moore smiled and shook hands and posed for anyone willing to wait.
 She's a celebrity in Minnesota. Maya Moore: Olympian, starting Lynx forward, household name. Her team won a championship in 2011 and returned to the Finals a year later, eventually falling to the Indiana Fever in four games. But even in defeat, Moore was the most recognizable face of the series. She is, without a doubt, the league's present; its brightest star, its biggest talent. Moore built her celebrity on a 90-game winning streak at UConn, where she established herself as the kind of player so dedicated she'd send texts to her coaches analyzing her shooting at practice, but so down-to-earth she'd fetch teammates water on the bench. She has size and she has strength and she has agility. With her combination of talent, celebrity, and charm, the 23-year-old has garnered a measure of mainstream attention for the WNBA. Now the challenge will be to sustain it.
 Maya Moore loved the WNBA from the start. She loved it when it was no more than a date on her calendar: June 21, 1997. For her eighth birthday, 10 days before the league's first game, her uncle gave her a pair of regulation-size WNBA basketballs, one outdoor, one indoor. She watched as the New York Liberty beat the Los Angeles Sparks, 67-57, in the league's inaugural game, and when her family moved from Jefferson City, Missouri, to Charlotte the next year and Atlanta after that, she brought her WNBA posters with her. She wore a Comets T-shirt after Houston won the first championship. She took her indoor ball on all her AAU trips. In Atlanta, Moore had no interest in the Hawks. She didn't care about the Braves and — despite spending her youth in Cardinals territory — wasn't interested in St. Louis's storied baseball franchise, either. These days, Maya Moore barely remembers a world without the league for which she is now a star.
 "I was a junkie," Moore said. "I was a basketball junkie. I'll admit it."
 The same probably goes for Brittney Griner, the 6-foot-8 Baylor phenom projected to be the no. 1 overall pick in April's WNBA draft whose overpowering, aggressive game is hard to ignore.1 (Here are your obligatory links to Griner dunk videos.) But besides their shared obvious talent, Griner is nothing like Moore. She's eight inches taller, with size and skills that make Moore appear a mere mortal in a world where she's been exalted for half a decade. From the moment of tip-off, it seems, many opponents provide no challenge whatsoever for Griner. Maybe they're intimidated. Or maybe Griner is so tall, so strong, so capable that to line up against her is to render oneself irrelevant.
 What Griner does on the court, she does on a scale unprecedented in the women's game. To watch her play is to see a human grenade explode; she's coiled and streamlined and aerodynamic until that moment when she throws all of her 208 pounds at the basket and unleashes, a mess of arms and legs going everywhere.
 If Griner is a grenade, Moore is a sniper. She sees her target without the obstructions, without the players lurking in front of her. She drops a shoulder, spins, lunges, a different machination every time to trick a defender and somehow arc the basketball precisely where it needs to be. Footwork and instincts make the process look far easier than it is, and though she doesn't dunk — at least not in games — Moore does what she does so precisely as to make everyone around her just a bit duller by comparison.
 Although we're months away from Griner's WNBA debut, and Baylor's season is already marred with an early 71-69 loss to Stanford,2 the spotlight has begun to move from Minneapolis to Waco. Yes, Moore inked an endorsement deal with Nike's Jordan Brand, the first female basketball player to do so. She was the catalyst behind the Lynx's jump from second-worst in the league in 2010 to champions one year later. But now, less than two years into her professional career, Moore has become more of an institution than a sensation. She's still on pace to develop into one of the very best in WNBA history, but it's clear Griner is the next best thing. Really, even that might not be completely accurate. Brittney Griner might not be just the next best thing. She might be the best thing. Period.
 
Cooper Neill/Getty ImagesIt's not a question of whether these two superstars can coexist in the WNBA, but rather whether the WNBA can finally capitalize on them. Since her Baylor team won its championship in April, talk of Griner's entry into the league next summer has escalated. She's Maya Moore 2.0, her name synonymous with basketball above the rim. But don't sleep on Griner's defensive acumen. Her 88-inch wingspan is as long as Anthony Davis's, and her grip is bigger than LeBron's.
 "She just changes what open is," Moore said. "Offensively, you can do a few things to try to maybe push her off of her comfort zone, just like any good player, but then you kind of have to hope she misses. But defensively, it's more 'What do you do with that?' You think you're open, and then she takes two steps and you're not open."
 Moore entered the league with monumental hype. On April 12, the day after the draft, 38,154 fans at Target Field watched a propeller plane circling overhead, trailing a banner that read: "WELCOME MAYA MOORE LYNX OPENER JUNE 5." And that was just the beginning. The team developed "Maya plans," including covering an entire wall of the Minneapolis skyway with facts about Moore and her career; special season-ticket packages; custom T-shirts; and plenty of plays on "getting Moore." Some version of that will be true in Phoenix — whose Mercury hold the no. 1 pick in the 2013 WNBA draft and are expected to select Griner — and such efforts will be necessary. Griner will enter the league on the heels of a season in which her Baylor team appeared on national television in 10 of its regular-season games; it's unlikely she'll get that kind of exposure in the WNBA. But it's not as if Griner hasn't pushed her team's popularity before; last season Baylor twice set school attendance records and recorded three advance sellouts for the first time in the program's history. Moore's Lynx have increased their appearances on ABC and ESPN networks from one in 2011 to four in 2012, and Griner should have a similarly large impact in Phoenix. The Lynx's gains have been good by WNBA standards, but can Griner be the catalyst of a bump in attendance and exposure that's not qualified within that niche market?
 Before Moore, there was Candace Parker. Before Parker, Diana Taurasi. They were the queens of college ball before becoming the WNBA's marketing gold, though none had the fanfare of Moore when she arrived in the league. Each has cultivated a personality as a pro: Parker as something of a sex symbol, Taurasi as the villain, both as talented, chippy players known to mouth off and tussle on the court. But platforms for their celebrity were few. In fact, this line of college stars whose fame faded when they turned pro goes back to the early days of the league, when Sheryl Swoopes and Cynthia Cooper-Dyke came into the league with three Olympic medals between them and went on to win a combined four WNBA titles, but the league still failed to capitalize on their success.
 "I think it's always a case of the latest is the greatest," UConn coach Geno Auriemma said. "Whoever is the most recent and most successful in people's minds is who people perceive as the most marketable person."
 But the popularity of Moore, Parker, and the rest hasn't grown precipitously since they left school, and they, especially Moore, are still best known for what they did at the collegiate level. There's no reason to believe Griner won't follow a similar pattern; she's different from every other player, yes, but is she different enough to steer her own course?
 In October, Auriemma caused a stir when he suggested lowering the rims in the women's game. There's no question that Auriemma wants what's best — his career hinges on it, after all — and the proposal was clever, too. (He suggested dropping the 10-foot rim by 7.2 inches, which would honor Title IX's 1972 institution.) The idea sparked chatter, but Auriemma, the godfather of the women's game, is hardly the first to publicly and dramatically suggest ways to fix it.
 For example: In 2003, a group of businessmen affiliated with the Mohegan Sun casino purchased the Orlando Miracle and brought the team north to Connecticut, where they figured throngs of UConn fans would love a professional franchise. The new owners moved the Sun (as they renamed the team) into a smaller arena, and in 2010, it became the first-ever WNBA team to turn a profit. Although the move to independent, rather than NBA-affiliated, ownership sparked a trend (five more franchises followed suit), no other team has adopted the scaled-down venue.
 What the Sun set in motion shouldn't be taken lightly. WNBA president Laurel Richie adamantly believes the league should be treated as a separate entity from the men's league. She's even known to drop "NBA" from its name, instead calling it "The W" in an apparent attempt to emphasize women. Yeah, it sounds like the hotel chain, but at least she's trying — and she might have the right idea. This isn't just a summer extension of the NBA, and focusing on what makes it different might be the WNBA's best battle cry.
 So no, the rest of the league hasn't adopted the Sun's scaled-down version of the game, and there's been no consensus in response to Auriemma's grand scheme. To properly execute what he's suggesting would involve top-down coordination, and it's the kind of last-ditch effort that would be a long time in the making. Regardless, there's no question that some kind of change is coming, good or bad, and even the most radical ideas might be worth something.
 Another game-changer just might be Griner. The year before she arrived at Baylor, the Bears scored an average of 69.3 points per game, giving up 57.4. By last season, those numbers had improved to 78.4 and 52.1. The stats only tell part of the story, though. Griner outplays and outmatches her opponents to the point that it's easy to feel sorry for them. Despite that kind of transformative dominance, though, Griner is just one player on one team, and Moore, for what it's worth, couldn't care less about this vague notion of change.
 "What does that actually mean?" she said. "The league is pretty cool if you watch the games right now. I don't know what you want to change."
 When Maya Moore won her 90th consecutive game at UConn, it was hard to imagine anyone being better. When Griner dunked and stomped her way to a championship last spring, the same was true. The stage is set for a new focus in women's basketball — the most dominant rivalry the WNBA has seen yet.
 Moore and Griner haven't faced off since November 16, 2010, when top-ranked UConn faced no. 2 Baylor in a rematch of the previous season's national semifinal.3 UConn won, 65-64, before a packed crowd of 12,628 at the XL Center in Hartford, Connecticut. Moore finished the night with 30 points, responsible for nearly half her team's scoring. Griner had 19 points and nine blocked shots.
 Take one of those swats, Griner's fifth, near the end of the first half. She barely left the ground as she batted the ball down. It was effortless. But as quickly as the ball took a high bounce to her left, there was Moore, out of nowhere, tipping it into the basket with her left hand. Then later, with UConn trailing by eight and with about seven minutes remaining, Moore drove to the basket. Baylor guard Jordan Madden trailed her as she lunged into the paint, and suddenly there was Griner, looming and ready. Moore took the shot anyway. She drew a foul, cut into Baylor's lead, and — perhaps most important — made Griner look like any other defender.
 Fourteen points later, the win was Moore's, UConn's winning streak was intact, and Griner's masterful work was undone by one of the few players who had figured out how to do so. That show is coming to the WNBA in a matter of months, and really, who wouldn't want to watch it?
 Joan Niesen (@JoanNiesen) covers the Timberwolves and the NBA for Fox Sports North in Minneapolis.

Dear Jason:

My family was very offended you used my name in connection with Tony Romo in one of your columns. We enjoy your truthful commentary on the NFL. Tony Romo is unworthy of the name Boo Boo, and we’re Falcons fans around these parts.

Thanks, sugar,

Honey Boo Boo’s mama

Your NFL Truths for Week 8:

10. The “information bubble” is the No. 1 obstacle/hindrance for black NFL quarterbacks.


This bubble creates delusion, erodes self-awareness and unwittingly undermines a black QB’s chance of sustaining success.

Cam Newton is a victim of the information bubble. Robert Griffin III is the bubble’s next target.

Let me explain. We’re in our political season. Democrats and Republicans both have their respective information bubbles, MSNBC and FOX News, respectively. They can lock their televisions on a single channel and avoid hearing their perspectives challenged in a credible way and hear their critics’ lambasted. It’s comforting. It’s polarizing. It’s unhealthy for intellectual growth and our democracy.

Black sports fans and black pop-culture media (not sports media) have created a loosely-formed-but-influential social-media and talk-radio information bubble for black QBs. This network of groupthink roars on sports-talk radio, black-owned radio stations, Facebook and Twitter, pumping out the message that Newton, Griffin and others can do no wrong and any criticism of them is rooted in racism. Fear of backlash from this network of well-intentioned enablers causes many mainstream sports analysts (media and fans of all colors) to avoid being totally honest about black QBs.

That’s how a career-killing, information bubble is formed.

White QBs don’t have to deal with this. In Kansas City, a group of fans paid for a banner to be flown over Arrowhead Stadium that called for owner Clark Hunt to bench Matt Cassel. Kansas City’s backup quarterback is Brady Quinn, the Cleveland bust. He’s not a solution. But he was named the starter on Monday.


Imagine the uproar if Eagles fans took similar action against turnover-machine Michael Vick? There would be riots in the streets. Philly fans would be labeled racist.

Information bubbles are destructive, whether in politics or sports.

Cam Newton is being ruined. In the aftermath of Sunday’s loss to the Cowboys, Newton, once again, handled the postgame news conference horribly. He not-so-subtly criticized his coaching staff. He flippantly quipped that he wanted to bring a suggestion box into the news conference. He condescendingly called a female reporter “sweetheart.”

He sounded like a crybaby and a loser. The black information bubble immediately leaped to Cam’s defense, claiming Cam’s critique of the offensive strategy was accurate.

The accuracy of his complaints is irrelevant. A quarterback is in partnership with his head coach and offensive coordinator. Their disagreements and criticisms should be handled internally and not referenced at a news conference by the QB.

What does RG3 have to do with any of this?

Well, informational bubbles are often uninformed. Along with being insecure and defensive, they can also be overly enthusiastic out of ignorance.

RG3 is off to a very nice, promising start. But football is not basketball, a quarterback is not a small forward and RG3 is not LeBron James. You could see LeBron’s ability to dominate the NBA when he was a junior in high school. Within 10 games of his NBA career, you could tell James would own the league one day. Basketball is the 100-meter dash; the sprinter that gets out of the blocks quick has a huge advantage. Football is a marathon with multiple variables, especially for a QB.


It’s way too early to anoint RG3. The information bubble has already decided the Colts made a mistake taking Andrew Luck ahead of Griffin. That’s ridiculous. We don’t know yet. There’s not nearly enough information. RG3 has the benefit of playing for a highly experienced head coach. Luck is playing for a new coaching staff that is dealing with the loss of its brand-new head coach.

Furthermore, in reaction to fear of the black information bubble, the mainstream media seem intent on pitting RG3 vs. Newton. On Monday, rather than individually deal with Cam’s immature postgame news conference, ESPN spent the day comparing RG3’s postgame comments to Cam’s.

Why?

It wasn’t a conversation about their playing styles and ability to scramble and throw. It wasn’t a conversation about Cam and RG3 both winning the Heisman Trophy. It was a conversation about Cam’s lack of leadership as a second-year starting quarterback. RG3 has nothing to do with that. ESPN is afraid the information bubble will call ESPN racist for pointing out Cam is a poor leader so the Worldwide Leader protected itself by portraying RG3 as the ultimate leader. We don’t know if Griffin is a great leader. We won’t know until he deals with some real NFL adversity. I suspect he’ll handle adversity quite well. He might be the Ray Lewis of adversity (Ray might be the best leader in sports history). But we just don’t know yet.

Compare Cam to Jay Cutler, Vince Young, Jeff George — talented QBs who struggled with leadership — or compare Cam to his second-year QB peers, Christian Ponder and Blaine Gabbert.


LATEST JETS MESS
Jets' Ryan involved in car accident
Jets owner didn't want Tebow?
QBs coach not returning
Sanchez, Revis want to remain
Rex responds to Tebow reports
Jets to part ways with Tebow?
Swapping Sanchez for Vick?
But don’t drag Griffin into Cam’s problems. It’s not fair. It’s not right. It’s a consequence of the black information sports bubble.

9. Close loss to Patriots further proves the Jets are a bad, poorly coached team.

Bad teams find ways to lose even when they’re playing well.

The Jets played a great game on Sunday and did just enough to blow it. Stephen Hill’s drop of a critical third-down pass on New York’s second-to-last possession of regulation is being pointed to as the key mistake in the Jets’ demise. New York had to settle for a game-tying field goal. Receivers drop passes. I can live with that.

The critical error, in my mind, was strategic. New England fumbled the ensuing kickoff. The Jets had a chance to put the game away. Mark Sanchez was playing well. New York offensive coordinator Tony Sparano foolishly sent Tim Sideshow onto the field on first down to run the wildcat. It was a conservative and stupid move. Timmy Sideshow ran for 2 yards. On the next play, Sparano ran return man Joe McKnight off tackle for 1 yard. It was a conservative and stupid move. Now it’s third down and all the pressure is on Sanchez and New York’s offensive line. Sanchez gets sacked, Jets settle for a go-ahead field goal and leave plenty of time on the clock for Tom Brady.

Rex Ryan is supposed to have a big pair. He didn’t show ‘em on Sunday.

8. Jim Harbaugh played quarterback in the NFL. John Harbaugh was a special-teams coach in the NFL. If you’re ever given a choice between hiring a former QB or a former special-teams coach, go with the QB.

 
EYE CANDY
We're not just watching the field on Sunday. NFL cheerleaders provide the perfect sideshow.
John Harbaugh wants to prove he’s an offense-friendly head coach. That’s the only explanation I can come up with for his insistence on preferring Joe Flacco over Ray Rice. We keep repeating the same story in Baltimore. Ray Rice doesn’t run the ball enough and Joe Flacco throws it too much.

Do John and Jim Harbaugh talk to each other? Jim has a mediocre quarterback he protects with Frank Gore and a running game. John has a mediocre quarterback he exposes by abandoning his running game.

John, call Jim for advice.

7. Jon Gruden’s perfect landing spot is in Detroit. The Lions have the nucleus for a Super Bowl contender.

Jim Schwartz is who Jim Harbaugh thought he was. Schwartz is in over his head. I like the Lions' personnel. They have talent. They’re poorly coached.

Jon Gruden is going to return to coaching. You pair him with Matt Stafford and Calvin Johnson and you have an explosive offense. The right defensive scheme and coaching will unleash Detroit’s front four.

The Lions are a sleeping giant. The right coach and they’re the offensive version of the San Francisco 49ers.

6. Broncos fans are on my butt about my early-season comments that Peyton Manning was “toast.” OK, he’s not toast. I was wrong.

Manning’s arm magically got stronger. He looks great. I don’t mind being wrong. It’ll happen again. I’d love to know how and why Manning’s arm got stronger, and that’s not a sarcastic criticism. But we went from Manning’s arm being “it is what it is” to being better than what it was.


The AFC is weak. I can see Manning and the Broncos taking advantage and winning the AFC Championship. Right now I see the Texans and Broncos in the AFC title game.

5. The schedule is the only logical explanation for the Bears being 5-1. Seriously.

I’m not buying the Bears. They’ve beaten the Colts, Rams, Jaguars, Cowboys and Lions. That’s not 'Dre, ‘Pac, Snoop, Suge and Nate Dogg. It’s not Death Row. It’s No Limit Toy Soldiers.

To their credit, the Bears blew out Indy, St. Louis, Dallas and Jacksonville. The Bears are a mystery. Is their offensive line any good? Is Brian Urlacher too old? We won’t figure the Bears out for three weeks. They play Carolina and Tennessee the next two weekends.

Chicago could be 7-1 before it faces a seven-week stretch against Houston, San Francisco, Minnesota, Seattle, Minnesota, Green Bay and Arizona. Jay Cutler won’t survive that stretch. J.J. Watt, Aldon Smith, Jared Allen and Clay Matthews are going to annihilate Chicago’s offensive line.

4. Did I mention Brady Quinn won the KC starting job with a zero-TD, two-INT, 38-10 blowout loss to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers?

Think about that. Matt Cassel has a $60 million contract and he just lost his job to a guy who played like he’s overpaid at $1.5 million. During a series of face-saving interviews last week, Chiefs general manager Scott Pioli promised he didn’t dictate to Romeo Crennel or Todd Haley that Cassel had to be the starting quarterback. But Pioli has never signed a viable backup QB to challenge Cassel.

Now do you understand why there’s a fan revolt (@saveourchiefs on Twitter or saveourchiefs.com) in KC?

3. This is simply a hunch: It’s too early to count out the Saints.


NFL BOUNTY SCANDAL
Titans bring on Williams
Sean Payton's suspension lifted
Vilma's lawsuit dismissed
Tagliabue vacates suspensions
Browns LB Fujita blasts Goodell
NFL adjusts discipline to players
Goodell issues letters to players
Player suspensions overturned
I’m not saying they’re going to make the playoffs. It’s nearly impossible to dig out from 0-4. But the Saints are not going to quit. They’ve been in every game this year. They’re riding a two-game winning streak. They have the Broncos this week on Sunday night. New Orleans will be motivated and emotional.

The Saints are going to be a problem for the high-caliber teams left on their schedule (Atlanta twice, San Fran, the Giants, Denver and Philly). I see the Saints finishing 8-8.

2. Bill Snyder is the NCAA Coach of the Year and Collin Klein should be in a two-man race with Notre Dame’s Manti Te’o for the Heisman Trophy.

It’s difficult to appreciate just how good of a coach Snyder is. He is as good as any coach in football on any level. Snyder is as good as Lombardi, Belichick, Bear Bryant, Saban, Noll and Brady Hoke. (Eat it, Ohio Buckeyes and Urban Meyer.)

I don’t have any doubt that Snyder could win at the highest level in the NFL, at Alabama, Michigan, Florida, LSU and Ohio. I’m not sure Lombardi, Belichick, Bryant, Saban, Noll and Meyer could win consistently at Kansas State. (Hoke could win anywhere they lace ‘em up.)

As for Klein, he’s not a pro player. That’s fine. But he and Te’o are the two most important players in college football.

1. I’m officially a Man On Fire: hit a two-teamer with the Saints and Jets over the weekend.

Pay your mortgage this weekend with Atlanta plus 2.5 at Philly.

Taking the plunge
Tulane Stadium left mark on New Orleans
Tulane Stadium was the site of three Super Bowls before the Superdome showed up. In fact, it paved the way for the Superdome to exist. (Focus On Sport/Getty Images)
January 24, 2013
Focus on Sport/Getty Images
The Superdome has been the site of seven Super Bowls and decades of Sugar Bowls, but both of those games were equally at home in Tulane Stadium.
Kevin C. Cox/Getty Images
Tulane Stadium attracted an NFL team, the Saints, in 1967.
Chris Graythen/Getty Images
These days, LSU has the upper hand when it plays Tulane, but that hasn't always been the case.
Focus On Sport/Getty Images)
Halftimes were something at Tulane Stadium. This one just happened to take place during Super Bowl VI.
Focus on Sport/Getty Images
Memories like this one, from Super Bowl IV, will live on forever, even if Katrina washed away some of the evidence of them.
NEW ORLEANS — It's quaint, narrow, this stretch of Willow Street, lined with colorful houses and dotted with puddles. A stray cat will scamper across if you wait long enough. The pavement buckles in spots, sinks in others, just as all roads in New Orleans are wont to do. There are too many of those stubborn, ancient live oak roots, with the ground more like swamp, after all, and so sometimes a line of cones and flags will say you simply cannot proceed. Not over that crack, you can't. And so you turn around and find another route. It's not like there's too much traffic on Willow Street, anyway.
Audubon Boulevard is majestic. It's old New Orleans, the Old South, each house grander than the next, with columns and porticos and picture-book flowers. The neutral ground – or median, to New Orleans neophytes – is green and lush, and if you close your eyes and there's a break in the traffic, it could as easily be 1940 as 2013.
The two roads meet, inconspicuously these days, on the edge of Tulane University's campus. It's another intersection, nothing noteworthy, just a line of fence behind the houses on the east side of Audubon. 
The fences are old. No one's sure how old, not really. The wood is battered and mossy, but in New Orleans, that means little; new wood looks that way after a summer. Still, they must have been replaced, people say, since then. But maybe not. It's only been 33 years. Maybe not.
Thirty-three years ago, Tulane students could walk by the pile of rubble just beyond that intersection and pick up shards. Plenty snatched bricks and such, took them home over break to New Jersey and California, to Baton Rouge and Mobile and who knows where else. By 1980, the steel had been sold and the bricks were being hauled away, and that was all that was left of Tulane Stadium, the building at the northeast crook of Audubon and Willow, the behemoth that had once been the largest stadium in the South.
******
As fans flock to New Orleans for Super Bowl XLVII, the city's first since Katrina in 2005, they'll slurp hurricanes at Pat O'Brien's and queue up outside Galatoire's in hopes of snagging a table. They'll buy beads and mugs and nameplate key chains and tote them from sticky-floored bar to sticky-floored bar. On game day, throngs of 49ers and Ravens jerseys will push toward the Superdome, the home to seven Super Bowls, without a thought to the other three, the first three. Maybe they remember the Chiefs upsetting the Vikings in 1970, or the Cowboys beating the Dolphins two years later, or the Vikings again losing, this time to Pittsburgh, three years after that. It's unlikely, though, that they remember where all that happened. 
From the Superdome, hang a right, then a U-turn, head three miles uptown, and you're there. Or at least, you're where it was, but in its place you'll see a small field, a rec center, some students jogging. You'll wonder where on earth, how on earth, there was ever a stadium, much less a Super Bowl.
Tulane Stadium opened in 1926 on the heels of the Green Wave's undefeated 1925 season, and over its 53-year life it was home to 49 Tulane and nine New Orleans Saints seasons, 41 Sugar Bowls and those three Super Bowls. The 35,000-seat concrete structure rose up at the edge of Tulane's campus, growing over the years to a capacity of 80,985. Its expansion was propelled by the 1934 birth of the Sugar Bowl, the New Year's Day game named for the old Foucher plantation, where sugar was first refined and upon which the stadium squarely sat.
With the bowl game growing in prominence each year, the stadium grew along with it, to the point that it was the biggest stadium in the South and smaller only than the Rose Bowl, the Los Angeles Coliseum and Michigan Stadium. The Sugar Bowl pushed Tulane and New Orleans to prominence with the teams it brought in each Jan. 1, and from it the stadium took its alternate moniker, Sugar Bowl Stadium. The building saw its share of spectacle over the years, from the inaugural Sugar Bowl in 1935, a 20-14 Tulane victory over Temple, to the Tulane-LSU rivalry. From early NFL exhibition games to the Saints' opening day, a 27-13 loss to the Rams in which rookie John Gilliam ran the opening kickoff back 94 yards for a touchdown.
And here's the thing: Without Tulane Stadium, there would have been no John Gilliam, at least not with the Saints, no kick return that old men are still jawing about today. There would have been no team, not without the preexisting stadium in which to install it, and college football might have died out in the city years before. There'd have been none of the unique culture that the Saints bred, and the passion the city heaps upon its beloved teams would have been directed elsewhere. (In fact, when the Superdome became reality, it talked first to Tulane about becoming tenants, rather than to the Saints. It was a symbolic gesture, of course, an acknowledgment that Tulane made professional football possible in New Orleans by providing its stadium.)
Knowing what we know now, seeing the fierce love and joie de vivre of New Orleans sports, it would have been a damn shame. Longtime New Orleans Times-Picayune sportswriter and Sugar Bowl historian Marty Mulé puts it like this: "If it weren't for the stadium, we'd all be out watching volleyball matches."
Instead, and fortunately, New Orleans got the Saints; the team was officially created on Nov. 1, 1966 and began play in 1967. It had been a long audition for the city; Tulane Stadium had hosted exhibition games (with record crowds to boot) throughout the 1960s, and its presence was a deal too sweet to pass up for the NFL. There was little more than the idea of the Superdome when the Saints arrived, only a stadium commission in place, and it was Louisiana, after all, where nothing political is ever easy, so the NFL knew it would be years before a new home existed.
"The Saints came with just the gleam, and the promise, and the talk of all that," said Darryl Berger, a New Orleans developer who's lived 61 of his 65 years within four blocks of the old stadium. "But it was years."
******
In the spring of 1970, Steve Barrios was a sophomore receiver at Tulane. He and his teammates were going through reps at the stadium when a well-dressed man stopped by their workout. He approached the team and asked the players a question none expected: Would y'all like to play in a domed stadium someday? Wouldn't that be fun?
"I remember that like it happened yesterday," Barrios said. "It was like, who is this crackpot, you know?"
The crackpot in question was Dave Dixon, the father of the Superdome and the man most responsible for bringing the Saints to New Orleans. He'd spent years wrestling with government to get antitrust legislation passed, which ultimately landed him the Saints and paved the way for the NFL-AFL merger. But even knowing that, figuring out who Dixon was and the lengths to which he would go for the Saints, Barrios still thought the man was nuts. This was his stadium, his and his teammates', and by that point it was the Saints' too. Tulane was accustomed to practicing after NFL games on Sundays, sharing the field with pros. Barrios and his teammates had just months before snuck into Super Bowl IV through the Tulane coaches' offices, entering through an unmanned tunnel and scattering to find seats throughout. 
They didn't see anything wrong with their home. It was theirs, and in New Orleans there's a sense of history and ownership like no other, a sense of place and pride. How else does a city built in such a fragile fishbowl of a place rebuild after a devastating hurricane, with pride and tenacity to spare? In a way, Tulane Stadium shared that same improbability as New Orleans, that same sense of being squeezed into a space it shouldn't have been squeezed. Instead of Lake Pontchartrain and the Mississippi, there was Audubon Blvd. and Claiborne St. for the stadium, houses and schools and narrow streets upon which the whole thing seemed poised to overflow.
Back then, the tight confines and lack of parking mattered less if you knew the right people, and really, of course you knew the right people if you were going to the game. Berger parked cars in his parents' driveway, charging commensurate with the caliber of the game. Everyone had their favorite spot, their friend who had a corner of his lawn reserved and a Bloody Mary waiting. Tailgates were cocktail parties, and afterward there was hardly the crush out of Uptown you'd expect; everyone went back to finish off those drinks and pour a few more. 
"It was literally this huge stadium just right in the middle of the neighborhood," Berger said. "Yet that was part of the charm and part of the event. … Gosh, the closer you lived to the stadium, the more privileged you felt. All the friends would come to your house. Your uncle so-and-so and your daddy's best buddy so-and-so would get together and park in your driveway."
Elliott Laudemann attended Tulane, and his uncle, F.D. "Hap" Reilly, was one of the inaugural Sugar Bowl members. Laudemann frequented games at the stadium from its early days to its last, from Tulane tilts to NFL exhibitions. He went to parties at his uncle's before and walked over, navigating through the Uptown streets until they gave way to what the Times-Picayune called in 1975 "sports Camelot." 
"It was (crowded)," Laudemann said. "But it worked. It worked because it had to."
The same could be said for New Orleans, and where the Superdome is looming, shining, metal glory, Tulane Stadium was a product of its place. The Superdome provided a home to refugees for days, damaged but still mostly dry, the beacon of an underwater city. Tulane Stadium was never that and never could have been. It was squeezed and smushed and sardined into a neighborhood, and it took on the flavor of that neighborhood, of New Orleans, creating a tight-knit football society that still exists to this day.
******
In 1981, nearly two years after Tulane Stadium was torn down, a cherry tree split in two near Tiger Stadium on LSU's campus. According to Mulé, it was the result of some Tulane students who'd snuck up to Baton Rouge, a lock that was apparently too easy to pick and one giant, freed tiger by the name of Mike. He was Mike IV, more specifically, the live jungle cat that lived on LSU's campus and for many years and traveled with the football team to road games. In the wee hours of Nov. 28, the Tulane students had let him out of his cage and then run, leaving the police to eventually tranquilize him and get him back behind bars, but not before he hopped up into that cherry tree and shattered the thing.
In 1981, the Green Wave and Tigers had achieved some parity, rare in the years after Tulane left the SEC in 1966, and that night, LSU lost at the Superdome, 48-7. It was Tulane's second win in three years in the rivalry and just eight years since it broke its 25-year drought against LSU in a 14-0 rout at Tulane Stadium. That game set college football attendance records for a night game and for any game played in the South, drawing 86,598 fans, and when it was all but over, the Tulane faithful are said to have urinated onto retreating LSU fans off of the upper deck.
No one thought much of it. That's just how the rivalry went, and even tampering with Mike wasn't a first. In 1950, before a 14-14 tie, Tulane students stole Mike I while his cage was left unmanned outside Ye Old College Inn, a popular restaurant around the corner from Tulane that exists to this day. His handlers had gone in for a bite, and the students capitalized on the moment, hiding Mike under the stadium and painting his cage green before eventually returning him. To this day, no one will concede to having been the perpetrator, short of vague murmurs and knowing glances. "I know a couple of people to this day who will not admit it," Mule said, "but they'll kind of wink at you."
New Orleans is best characterized by a mix of tradition, which that rivalry brought in spades, and utter nonsense. Some things just don't make sense, like the notion that stealing a tiger is a good idea or the conspicuous lack of road striping, while others have been ingrained in to the culture such that they must make sense. That's everything from Tulane hating LSU even now, when one has been terrible and the other a perennial SEC contender for years, to Mardi Gras krewes to the little plastic Jesus babies they wedge into king cakes. The stadium was the same way. It didn't teach the city its piquant tradition – that's been there since long before 1926 – but it built it, bit by bit and sometimes through stories you couldn't make up if you tried.
Today, the biggest name among football bigwigs in New Orleans is Tom Benson, the owner of the Saints and the NBA's Hornets. Benson is also a donor to the new, 30,000-seat stadium that Tulane is about to erect just off the footprint of the old one. That seems strange, you'd think, because what does Benson care about a struggling team about to enter the turmoil of the Big East, but it's more complex than that. Look at the documents from the original Tulane Stadium, back when it broke ground, and you'll notice a familiar name: Benson. It's Herbert Benson this time, Tom's great uncle, who was the architect of the original stadium and a president of the Sugar Bowl in the 1930s. So yes, it makes sense, Benson's donation, because this thing, this notion of football in New Orleans and the community it builds, spans decades and generations.
Darryl Berger's father was one of the many businessmen in the 1930s to purchase Sugar Bowl bonds. They were sold to increase the size of the stadium – Tulane wasn't about to front the cost – and by buying them, purchasers were guaranteed certain perks, like seats to the Sugar Bowl every year. The Bergers got 12 prime spots in Tulane Stadium, and when the show moved to the Superdome, their real estate was just as good.
"To this day, I still go to the Sugar Bowl every year, and … I call those my daddy's seats," Berger said. "There are hundreds and hundreds, thousands of others, that have the same sort of deep connection. That's back to the roots of Tulane Stadium."
The same holds for some Saints tickets, though the history is shorter. Laudemann, who was in his 30s when the NFL came to New Orleans, purchased seats in the upper deck of Tulane Stadium. He and his friends, about 300 of them, he said, all got seats together, and they'd split into groups before and after for cocktails, dinner and more cocktails at someone's house nearby. Things changed, obviously, when the Superdome came into play, but Laudemann still has those tickets. He's had them since Day 1, and to suggest he might have gotten rid of them – well, to him that's borderline ridiculous.
******
The Saints now are a regional phenomenon. Fans come from Baton Rouge, from Houma, from Lake Charles, trucking across the state for those games. At the beginning, though, that wasn't the case; in 1967, the NFL in New Orleans was a whole different beast. Gilliam's kick return was fun, sure, but the Saints lost that game, and most of the ones after it. They didn't have a winning season in Tulane Stadium, not for 20 years after their inception, not until 1987. They were the lovable losers, Berger said, but boy, if the games weren't fun. No one puts it better than Marty Mulé: "The game," he said, "it was not just a football game. It was a happening."
Al Hirt, a famous trumpeter and minority owner of the Saints, would lead the whole place in song, and it wasn't uncommon to see an ostrich race or a woman paraded out on a camel at halftime. (The Times-Picayune described one such camel sighting as a "zoological triumph.") Before the 1970 Super Bowl, a balloon containing the Vikings mascot went up, and then all too quickly down, crashing near the stands without actually injuring anyone. Then, at halftime, performers reenacted the Battle of New Orleans, and the whole thing went awry when a cannon misfired, blowing off one man's hand. That caused the horse carrying the fellow playing Andrew Jackson to bolt and, by proxy, the British to win, rewriting fake history. Then, to add insult to literal injury, the man with the bloody hand was almost run over by one of those very ostriches and the small chariot it pulled.
"I have to say that was far more entertaining than the game," Laudemann said of those early halftime shows. "And for whatever reason, that kind of discontinued."
For every cherished football moment in the old stadium, there's a commensurate memory of the weird. It went beyond just those halftime shows, beyond even the Super Bowls, although the 1975 contest set an auspicious record for the most pockets picked at a sporting event, according to the Times-Picayune. (They estimated 4,500 total.) The weird goes all the way back to the origins of the stadium in the 1930s, when the newspaper housed homing pigeons in a specially constructed cage on the sideline and then used them to fly film of games back to the office to be developed. The pigeons were in large part owned by the New Orleans Racing Pigeon Club, and the paper saw fit to run three long feature articles on them in a decade. 
Then there was the underneath to contend with, where plaster casts of Mayan ruins were stored for decades. Tulane was a leader in excavations in Central America for a time, and when it ran out of space, the casts were simply shoved next to the football dummies. There were Tiffany windows, too, which were found with little damage and later installed on campus. Same goes for two ancient Egyptian mummies, Got Tothi Ankh and Nefer Atethu, who beginning in 1955 spent 23 years in a room under the bleachers. They're still in fine shape today, especially the female, Nefer Atethu, although she's been relocated to a specially outfitted room where the mummies' curator, John Verano, is all too happy to bring her out and poke gently at her "crispy" skin. 
It's surprising but almost not. The stories around the place have piled up over the years, from cannons to mummies to tarps frozen to fields – that happened in 1964 – such that they've almost ceased to shock. It's New Orleans, after all, and it was a different time, and now we know where to put mummies and to have Beyoncé sing at halftime, and we've put a roof over the thing, too.
******
After Tulane and the Saints moved to the Superdome in 1975, Tulane Stadium stayed open on a limited basis. In 1978, the Broncos practiced in it before the Superdome's first Super Bowl, and high schools played there until just weeks before demolition began at the end of 1979. When the decision was made that the place had to come down – the steel upper decks had already been condemned and were unusable – Tulane organized a sort of funeral for the place, charging $5 for admission. About 15,000 fans showed up for a colorful program that included a narrated slideshow of the building's history. 
At the end of the program, two Tulane greats were present: Lester Lautenschlaeger, the quarterback of the undefeated 1925 team who was an assistant coach in 1926, and Roch Hontas, the 1979 quarterback. Lautenschlaeger was 75 at the time, Hontas in his senior year of college. The two clinked wine glasses, generation to generation, and the thing was over, the eulogy finis, the stadium abandoned to be disassembled. 
You could do that back then, bring in the man who was there for Day 1 to smile and pose with the current golden boy. You can't do that anymore. That first game, Tulane-Auburn, was played nearly 87 years ago. People are dying and memories are fading, and when you walk across that small quad where the stadium used to be, you don't hear the rattling of steel that the place was famous for, not even faintly. You can no longer picture hundreds Cub Scouts clustered in one end zone, stomp, stomp, stomping, finished with their drink- and program-selling and there to make the place sound like it was jam-packed full, even if the draw was only 30,000. The fences may remain, but the memory is nearly gone. 
When Katrina hit, the Sugar Bowl offices flooded. The bowl's artifacts and historical documents were kept there, and Laudemann remembers going back in after the storm and seeing old photos waterlogged and ruined. After that, the members learned their lesson, putting it all in offsite storage, but to even think about what was lost and looted is staggering.
When Darryl Berger was a kid in the 1950s, he'd wait by the Tulane tunnel after games. The players were cleared to give their chinstraps to the waiting throngs of children, and everyone's goal was to come back with one, no matter how dirty, how smelly, how much your mama wanted you to throw it away. Berger's collection sat on the shelf in his room for years until someone trashed it or put it in storage, and so many of those chinstraps, too, must have washed away in the floods.
But this is more than just Katrina. This is time and age and an obsession with the modern. When Tulane's new home, Yulman Stadium, opens in 2014, it'll sit just northeast of where the old one was situated, but no matter its amenities, it'll never be as imposing or magnificent as its predecessor. The school saved the stone archway from old Tulane Stadium's façade, though, and it plans to install it over the entrance of the new one. It's a beautiful tribute to a long-gone era, and maybe, just maybe, the echoes of the old stadium will return, however faintly, in its shadow.

With no clear favorite entering spring practice, the Big 12 should be college football’s most intriguing conference to watch when preseason picks are released for 2013.

Oklahoma State, TCU, Oklahoma and Texas seem to be the early favorites for next season, but Kansas State and Baylor can’t be counted out. The Horned Frogs should be better in their second tour through the Big 12, while the Cowboys will be a dangerous team if they can settle on one quarterback.

It may seem strange to say this for two high-profile programs, but Oklahoma and Texas are the two darkhorse teams to watch in spring practice. The Longhorns have shown some small progress over the last few years and have the talent to win the Big 12. Oklahoma is coming off a 10-3 season but must replace quarterback Landry Jones and rebuild a defense that allowed 398.3 yards per game last year.

The Big 12 had only one head coaching change this offseason, as Kliff Kingsbury returns to Lubbock to take over for Tommy Tuberville at Texas Tech. Kingsbury helped to engineer some of the nation’s best offenses at Houston and Texas A&M and should be able to immediately put his stamp on the program in 2013. 

Big 12 Team Spring Storylines and Quarterback Battles to Watch

Baylor

Can the defense continue to make progress?
Baylor’s final defensive numbers certainly weren’t anything to be proud of. The Bears finished 2012 ranked 110th nationally in scoring and 119th in yards allowed. However, there were encouraging signs over the final few games of the year, which included a solid performance against UCLA in the Holiday Bowl. Now that coordinator Phil Bennett has been in Waco for two years, the Bears should have a good grasp on his system and more improvement is expected in 2013. And this unit has promising talent returning, including safety Ahmad Dixon, linebacker Bryce Hager and defensive end Terrance Lloyd. With the momentum from the 2012 finish, combined with seven returning starters, Baylor’s defense should show more progress in 2013. Considering the Bears will have a new starter at quarterback, it’s important for the defense to help shoulder more of the burden this year.

Quarterback Battle? Can the Bears continue their recent run of successful quarterbacks? Nick Florence departs after an outstanding year, leaving junior Bryce Petty as the No. 1 passer this spring. Redshirt freshman Seth Russell and true freshman Chris Johnson will get a look this spring, but Petty is expected to be Baylor’s starting quarterback in 2013. 


Iowa State

Finding replacements at linebacker
Quarterback and linebacker seem like they will be the focus almost universally in the Big 12 this spring. Maybe nowhere in the nation, however, is that more apparent than at Iowa State. The Cyclones must replace two All-American-caliber linebackers from a defense that ranked third in the Big 12 in points allowed. A.J. Klein won co-Big 12 Defensive Player of the Year two years ago and finished his career with 361 tackles. Jake Knott posted 347 stops of his own. Talented tackler Jeremiah George is a good starting point but other names will need to step into more prominent roles at linebacker for the Cyclones to reach the postseason for the third consecutive season. 
 

Kansas

Restocking the offensive line
While the defense is a huge concern, the Jayhawks have to be concerned about their offensive line with the departure of three starters from last season’s unit. Left tackle Tanner Hawkinson was the group’s biggest departure, but center Trevor Marrongelli and guard Duane Zlatnik will also be missed. Considering the only real strength with Kansas last season was the rushing attack, the new pieces on the offensive line have to jell together this spring. The Jayhawks are counting on junior college recruits Mike Smithburg and Ngalu Fuismalohi to fill the gaps at guard, while senior Aslam Sterling should be the starter at right tackle. However, the two most important positions on the line – left tackle and center – are up for grabs. Converted defensive lineman Pat Lewandowski is the frontrunner at left tackle, while sophomore Dylan Admire is listed No. 1 on the spring depth chart at center. Admire played in all 12 games last season but doesn’t have a start under his belt. If this unit struggles, Kansas’ offense will have trouble getting running back Sims on track, along with giving quarterback Jake Heaps time to throw.
 

Kansas State

Rebuild the linebacking corps
Arthur Brown eventually turned into a superstar at Kansas State and was a key factor in the team’s success over the last two years. However, Brown and four other contributors have departed the linebacking position. In fact, the Wildcats boasted seven senior linebackers on the roster in 2012, so Bill Snyder has his work cut out for him this spring. The defensive line and secondary lose a lot as well, so the entire defense needs work, but rebuilding should start in the middle at linebacker. Jonathan Truman, Tre Walker and Mike Moore are the only players returning to the position with any experience at all.

Quarterback Battle Breakdown: Daniel Sams (SO) vs. Jake Waters (JR)
While Collin Klein will be missed, Kansas State has two solid options to turn to under center this season. Sams was impressive in limited action last year, while Waters threw for 3,501 yards and 39 touchdowns at Iowa Western Community College in 2012. Considering both quarterbacks have no starts at the FBS level, this battle could extend deep into the fall. 
 

Oklahoma

Find a supporting cast for Aaron Colvin in the secondary
Oklahoma’s defense has major holes to fill at a variety of positions, but three of the starting four defensive backs from 2012 have departed the team. The top four tacklers last season were defensive backs — which should indicate just how much the front seven struggled last year — and three of them are gone, including the team’s most talented player and leading tackler Tony Jefferson. Only Aaron Colvin returns, and Bob Stoops needs to find him support this spring. 

Quarterback Battle Breakdown: Blake Bell (JR) vs. Trevor Knight (FR) vs. Kendal Thompson (SO)
While the Sooners are listed as a battle, it’s hard to see Knight or Thompson unseating Bell. The Kansas native needs to show he can be a consistent passer but has scored 24 rushing scores in limited action. The battle between Knight and Thompson for No. 2 could be the bigger storyline to watch, especially since the winner of that competition is in line to start if Bell struggles.


Oklahoma State

Who steps up at defensive end?
The Cowboys don’t have many glaring issues to work on in spring practice, but the defensive end spot is a concern for coordinator Glenn Spencer. Oklahoma State loses three key contributors from last season, as Cooper Bassett, Nigel Nicholas and Ryan Robinson expired their eligibility after the bowl win against Purdue. Tyler Johnson is the most experienced option on the outside and he recorded 27 tackles and four sacks last season. Outside of Johnson, there’s not much in the way of proven options. Sam Wren ranked as the No. 16 junior college prospect by ESPN and could win the other starting end spot. True freshman Naim Mustafaa enrolled early to compete in the spring and figures to play a prominent role in the rotation. However, even if Wren and Mustafaa emerge as solid options, depth is still an issue. Expect the defensive staff to spend a lot of time watching the trenches in spring practice.

Quarterback Battle Breakdown: Clint Chelf (SR) vs. Wes Lunt (SO) vs. J.W. Walsh (SO)
Despite three quarterbacks making starts for Oklahoma State in 2012, the Cowboys finished third nationally and averaged 547 yards per game. All three passers are back this spring, and Oklahoma State should have one of the most intriguing quarterback battles in the nation. Wes Lunt began last season as the starter but lost his job due to an injury. Walsh and Chelf played well in Lunt’s absence, with Chelf finishing the year as the No. 1 quarterback.
 

Texas

Stop the run without Alex Okafor
Getting star front seven players Jackson Jeffcoat and Jordan Hicks back healthy will obviously go a long way to improving one of the most underachieving units in the nation. Filling holes left by end Alex Okafor and tackle Brandon Moore and stabilizing this unit could be the difference between a conference championship or pink slip for Mack Brown. Manny Diaz needs to figure out a way to improve a defense that allowed 88th nationally in rushing defense. There is a definite sense of urgency with this portion of the depth chart this spring.
 

TCU

Replace two All-Big 12 blockers up front
This team has few weaknesses heading into 2013 and will feature one of the league’s best defenses. Gary Patterson also has two quality options under center as well. Losing guard Blaize Foltz and center James Fry, two All-Big 12 performers from a year ago, will hurt the middle of the offensive line. Foltz was the best lineman on the team and the pivot is a critical position, so filling the gaps inside along the line is key for TCU this spring.

Quarterback Battle Breakdown: Trevone Boykin (SO) vs. Casey Pachall (SR)
Considering the Horned Frogs have the pieces in place to win the Big 12, this offense needs Pachall to return to his 2011 form. Despite missing eight games last season due to an off-the-field incident, Pachall is expected to edge Boykin for the starting job this spring, but Boykin will have some role on the offense in 2013.


Texas Tech

Rebuilding in the secondary
One year after allowing 485.6 yards per game, the Red Raiders were one of the nation’s most-improved defenses. Texas Tech ranked second in the Big 12 by allowing 367.3 yards per game, while finishing first in pass defense. This unit struggled later in the season, but there’s no question the Red Raiders were better on this side of the ball in 2012. In addition to a new coaching staff taking over, Texas Tech has significant question marks in the secondary. Cornerbacks Cornelius Douglas and Eugene Neboh, along with safeties Cody Davis and D.J. Johnson have expired their eligibility, which leaves the Red Raiders with just one returning starter in the defensive backfield. Cornerback Tre’ Porter is a good place to start rebuilding, while Bruce Jones, Jarvis Phillips, Derrick Mays and Ola Falemi return with experience. While there’s at least some depth at cornerback, the safety position is virtually empty. J.J. Gaines and John White are the only returning safeties on the roster, and the duo combined for just nine tackles in 2012. Incoming freshman Jalen Barnes and junior college recruit Martin Hill could be asked to play a lot in 2013, which is particularly bad news in an offensive-minded league like the Big 12.
 

West Virginia

Who will emerge as the top receivers?
All eyes in Morgantown will be focused on the defense in the spring, but the receiving corps shouldn’t be overlooked. Gone are standouts Tavon Austin and Stedman Bailey, along with Ryan Nehlen and J.D. Woods. The unit’s top returning receivers are Jordan Thompson (13 catches) and Connor Arlia (7), so it’s easy to see why the coaching staff is bringing in five players in the 2013 recruiting class at the position, including three junior college recruits. True freshman Shelton Gibson is also expected to get into the mix this fall. With a new quarterback and virtually new receiving corps, it may take some time for West Virginia to work out the kinks in the passing game. However, in an offensive-minded league with a questionable defense, the Mountaineers will need to win their share of shootouts in 2013.

Quarterback Battle Breakdown: Ford Childress (FR) vs. Paul Millard (JR)
Millard has the edge in experience (34 career passes), but the West Virginia coaching staff is excited to see what Childress can do with the No. 1 offense. The Houston native ranked as the No. 18 recruit in the 2012 signing class and spent last season learning the ropes as a redshirt. Even though Millard has the edge in game experience, this is Childress’ job to lose. 

 Where Do You Hate Going?
Seeing as its a Friday...

It's Scottish League Cup semi-final weekend (stop laughing!) which this year means a trip to Hampden for St Mirren and Celtic. The discussion in the office concluded that everyone hates going to Hampden. The combination of bad view, terrible location and general rubbishness was echoed by all parties.

With this in mind, my question to the esteemed contributors is - Which (rival) ground do you dislike visiting the most? And why?
Craig ( this trips to hampden for league game are particularly bad) RFC Glasgow


What Happened To Bacary Sagna?
Re. Hoges email about Sagna's ability to repel the ball before it's passed to him.

Granted, Arsenal have been generally sloppy this season, but to blame their passing in general on his absolutely shocking form is just wrong.

I've never seen a player become so crap so quickly in such a short space of time. He can't control the ball. His crossing is woeful, just terribly bad. He's forgotten how to tackle. I'm surprised he can still remember how to run. By far, the stand out worst performer for Arsenal this season.

I don't know what's wrong with him. Maybe he's lost his heart, or he's just turned crap. Either way, I'm past caring now. Thanks for your services. Please leave this summer and make way for Jenkinson.
Kiraldo (and I was annoyed with him when he decided to leave my FIFA team a few months back)....


What Makes A Good Goalie?
Watching that Scott Carson howler will bring back some really bad memories for Baggies fans. Carson was perhaps one the worst goalkeepers to ever grace the Premier League. In nearly 3 years at the Albion he made one memorable save (in a 2-1 win against Liverpool) and gave a goal away nearly every week. So many times I have I witnessed him standing there with his hands on his hips looking mystified as he has thrown yet another goal into his net. He used to make me so angry and I am glad he is safely locked away in Turkey and that we now have the fabulous Ben Foster. He is fabulous. Truly tremendous.

However the fact that Carson was ever allowed to become a professional just shows how little is known about what makes a good goalkeeper. De Gea is a case in point. Any fool can make the odd tremendous save by throwing their body around. Good goalkeeping is all about technique. Since January how many goals have Man Utd conceeded where De Gea has parried directly out to a striker. Getting to the ball anybody can do, disposing of it safely i.e. to the side requires technique. De Gea is not and never will be a good goalkeeper just like Carson because ultimately they have no technique. 

David Seaman was a brilliant goalkeeper. More often than not he did not need to make a brilliant saves because his technique and positioning was so good that he was in the right place. Yes there were a couple of errors (Nayim & Ronaldinho) but even the best will get it wrong occasionally. Joe Hart is a quality goalkeeper and yes his arrogance may have led to a couple of errors this season. But, a good keeper must be arrogant, to be able to stay calm, hold the ball and have the belief that if they come off their line they are going to get the ball. 

There is way to much ignorance even from the media about goalkeeping. The wrong skills have been valued. Best goalkeepers I have seen:

Russell Hoult, David Seaman, Ben Foster, Jussi Jasskeleinen, Brad Friedel, Petr Cech, Andy Goram, Shay Given,Nigel Martyn. All a certain type and please do notice why I left Schmeichal off that list. Overrated and actually has a lot to answer for with standard of many current goalkeepers. Even Schmeichal fans would describe him as un-orthodox.Well a good keeper can't be un-orthodox because good keeping is about technique. Schmeichal was lucky to play with people Gary Neville who were always there to whack the ball away after it had bounced randomly off him. Kasey Keller who was a far better keeper, would make save after save only for one to bounce off him and for no defender to be there to clear. If Schmeichal would have played for Leicester or Southampton he would have been found out for the sub par keeper he really was. 
Ben (I could have included Alan Miller and Stuart Naylor in my good keeper list) Baggie. Still laughing at the Villa.


Zaha: Not The Man?
I'd rather have bought Isco or James Rodriguez. Even Viktor Fischer or Alen Halilovic, if real youth were required.

Hate to say it, but Zaha looks an awful lot like a cheap-and-cheerful version of a Champions League quality attacking midfielder. 
Chris MUFC


Wet Tuesday
On a similar theme to Jack in Manchester about Berbaflop on the BBC, I'd advise people to take great care with spreading Football365 and football forum culture to the outside world. 

Last year, against my better judgement, I ventured on to the Daily Mail website to read a heartwarming story about a girl with no legs, who bravely battled back against illness to gain a place on her school football team.

In the comments section, I asked the question I presumed would have been on everyone's lips:

"A truly inspirational story, but could she do it on a wet Tuesday night at Stoke?"

Hundreds red arrows and messages of hate followed. Most probably all deserved.
Jamie (Never Again) Doherty


Pop
Dear TJ.

I hate to point out the obvious but yes, Arsenal have underperformed over the past eight years or so and yes our former players have gone on to win stuff with other clubs.

You may have missed this but Arsenal have a bloody great stadium to pay for.

We have a stadium to pay for and have a debt but then so do United and every season we are farther down the road of clearing that date so I'm afraid there's bugger all chance of Wilshere following so called Arsenal fan Robin Van Persie.

Sorry to burst your bubble
Graham Simons, Gooner, Norf London


Berbaflop
Earliest reference I can find to Berbaflop was a Spurs fan http://spurs.theoffside.com/team-news/dimitar-berbatov-you-prick.html (understandably) annoyed after a summer of Berbatov batting eyes and making pretty at potential suitors. 

More interesting was Jol's quote in the piece "Gifted, yes. But he is not a fighter. Perhaps you need others who are fighters to balance out the team"... Astute observation from the Dutchman.
Sam (wishes we'd have spent the 30m on Bale), Sydney


Flop Flop
Mike, Chelsea, based in Auckland you're wrong about a lot of those players. I'd love to know what you're criteria for success of flop is because frankly I find the following from your list of flops a bit puzzling; Pogba young player who left the league to get more regular football hardly a glittering failure, Deschamps 1 year at the end of his career won an FA Cup wouldn't call him a resounding failure, Barthez 2 Premier Leagues in four years and overall some good performances while the United GK jersey was still a poisoned chalice from memories of Schmeichel, Dacourt was a fans favourite at Leeds where his performances established him the French team and only left because of a falling out with Venables, Koscielny inconsistent yes and prone to brain farts but he has had a good Premier League so far

I could question a few other 'flops' you've listed based on age, your clear dislike of Arsenal players. I would question however why the players I've listed above are considered flops as opposed to players like Franc Quedrue (mid table journey man), Giles Grimandi (pretty average) Flamini (one really good season) who are 'hits'. If you're going to list off who's been a success or not gage how long they lasted, the level they played at or the trophies they won. Don't just base their success in the English game on whether you like them or not. Oh and Stéphane Sessegnon is from Benin. Not born there and plays for France. Was born in Benin and plays for Benin. You could have at least bothered your hole paying attention to the nationality listing seeing as you were on Wikipedia any way instead of lazily going with 'sounds French must be French'.

You said your selection was biased but forgot to forewarn us it was idiotic . 

On a constructive note if we're going to base this on success rate then the best contenders are countries with relatively few. Here's some of the best (success rate in brackets are surely)

Zimbabwe (100%); Benjani Mwaruwari, Bruce Grobbelaar, Peter Ndlovu
Oman (100%); Ali Al Habsi


Admin
Just a small, pedantic point, in response to MagnumPIG (£10m on Coutinho is a waste however)

The reason the likes of Benfica and Porto pick up steals from South America and sell them on for huge profits is probably actually to do with work permit regulations. Exciting stuff huh? 

In short, our regulations here are much stricter than in some other European countries. Another mailboxer may be able to tidy this up with exact figures, but I believe that for someone outside the EU to qualify for a work permit, they need to have played in a certain number of internationals, or an 'exceptional case' may be made for a player on appeal, usually involving a manager appearing before the Depratment for Work and Pensions, dropping to his knees and begging. 

In Portugal, these rules are a lot looser, and the presence of a Portuguse great great grandparent may help swing it too. I think British clubs know about some of these players, but the combination of language, culture and immigration rules mean Portugal (and Holland) are seen as better proving grounds for young South American talent before they take the next step to the 'big leagues'. 
Conrad Wiacek, MUFC


The Spectacle
Adam Shortland. It costs a significant amount of money to televise a football match, and typically television execs., sponsors, clubs, players, et al. all want to achieve the highest possible ratings, and present the best possible spectacle, when a match is televised. Unfortunately, in a milieu in which the FA Cup is widely broadcast abroad (no idea why, it's a joke of competition), that therefore guarantees that matches including United/Chelsea/Arsenal/City etc., particularly when against decent PL opposition, will be televised. It's in the interests of all concerned parties, and present a much better advert for English football than watching a lower league team defend desperately, hoof the ball, and try and score a scrappy goal, on a crap pitch against superior opposition.
Chris MUFC


...Could Adam Shortland in this morning's mailbox please let me know how to watch the Arsenal game this weekend, cos I'm pretty bloody sure it's not on telly. It's also a potential cup upset, which simultaneously backs-up and destroys his argument: if it was on telly it would be the kind of banana-skin tie he wants to watch. But it's not.
Steve Owen


...I agree with Adam Shortland about televised FA Cup matches. Man United have had their last 37 FA Cup ties televised. Yep, 37. In a row. This weekend makes it 38. 

Even as a Liverpool fan, this is in no way the fault of United, but of the appeal to the masses scheduling methodology. Broadcasters bang on about, "The magic of the cup" yet refuse to show it. In fact, United's last non-televised match was against Exeter which is exactly the sort of game that should be shown! 
Lee (as long as it's not on ITV though) LFC


Doppelgangers
We were in Tenerife having a meal and the guy responsible for the bill was the spitting image of Ronald Koeman, he was Belgian so the flemish accent only enhanced the restaurant owners belief that here was the guy who had scored the winning goal at Wembley for his beloved Barcelona delivering their first ever European Cup win, he couldn't have been more excited!

The guy, lets call him Jacques, happily posed for photographs and signed autographs, talked about what a great moment it was for him and how much he loved his time at Barca. He graciously accepted the complimentary bottle of wine and liquors that followed.

Then the bill arrived and he sheepishly turned to me and said "can you get this, I can't ruin this mans evening and the story he'll tell for years by handing him my credit card with Jacques DeClerq on!", knew I shouldn't have ordered the Chateaubriand!
Howard (and we didn't get the business!) Jones


...In response to Phil Pearce in Thursdays mailbox...

I too have an unexpected recognition story resulting in a random persons embarrassment. Unfortunately it's nobody of such great standing as the greatest Ginger Ninja of all time.

Afew years ago my favourite great uncle passed away, and had the brainwave of making me executor of his estate because he deemed me to be the next 'man of the family'...being only in my twenties, when it came time to go through probate, I found myself attending the meetings with my mum as she had a clue what it was all about, and i was the obvious clueless idiot...

Being in Manchester city centre early on the day all the forms were being finalised, we decided to pop for a coffee in one of those 'poncey sofas n armchairs style rip off coffee establishments'. While mum settled her arse in a purple Chesterfield, I did the honours and got mugged for 2 mochas. While stood there all suited n booted with the added suave of black leather jacket (not my usual daytime attire so was feeling unusually cool), I noticed my mam pissing herself in the corner. Once coffees were purchased and my wallet suitably lightened I went to find out what the joy was about on this sombre day. Turns out she'd been observing some poor woman wandering past, spot me from behind in the queue, freeze, dive into her bag for her phone and ring her fella/dad/son/male friend. Through the medium of lip reading mum observed this conversation...

'Hi it's me, no no shush listen. I'm on Deansgate n I've just seen ******* ****** in a coffee shop, I'm looking at him now...no honest I am!!...OK, what shall I say?...OK, yes I've got a pen...ok I'll ask...yes it's definately him!!...OK I'll ring you back.'

Blissfully unaware I'm still queueing for my expensive hot chocolate, apparently she got through the door and within a few steps of nervously tapping me on the shoulder, then I stepped forward and placed my order. Apparently the realisation of my mancunian accent not bring the expected French stopped her from actually making me aware she was stalking me for an autograph...the moment of my half turn, to look at mum laughing she retreated,silently, with a face turning beetroot and quickly scurried off outside...I sauntered over to have my cool destroyed forever, my mum was laughing because I'd been mistaken, from behind in my defence, for the handsome ladykiller that is.... Fabien Barthez :-( the shame
Jeff, Manchester MUFC


...In response to Phil Pearce email the other day about dooplegangers, I was at the villa/Bradford game on Tuesday just gone. Just got into the ground, waiting just past the tunstiles for my mates.

A little kid and his dad passed me, and then lad looked up excitedly and said to his dad 'is that Alan Hutton?

Thankfully his dad put him right straight away but I was absolutely gutted.

Of all the big bald blokes, over all the sh*t footballers, it had to be him. Alan Bloody Hutton!

This very much set the tone of the night for me.
Alex (RIP AVFC) Sheedy


Drew Peacock
So, according to Steven Howard no-one would be stupid enough to call their son 'Drew Peacock'? (Mediawatch, Fri 25/1)

Perhaps this little chap has just picked a team and learned to write rather early.
Tom, Teddington


...Cheers Mediawatch, appears I've achieved fame at last! Just wait til The Sun hears about my mates Ivan O'Toole, Dick Palmer, Don Kiddick and my long lost cousin Buttplug McReacharound. 

Thanks F365!!
Drew Peacock - MUFC, Manchester


We Like To Make It Hard For You...
What's the story with the quiz lads?

Trying to make us all feel stooopid? Or is it just me that only managed to answer 5! Jeez!!!
John Whelan, Dublin


Lolzies
I just stumbled across your article where Iniesta discusses Victor Valdes' decision not to renew his contract with Barcelona. My eyes were immediately drawn to one quote in particular however:

"He's overcome difficult moments and has won five Zamoras (trophy given to the goalkeeper with the lowest goals-to-game record in the Primera Division)."

I think I see what they did there...

Rooney Moan
ITV summed up last night just why I feel so compelled to point out how average Rooney is. Incase you didn't see it, the adverts before the United game were "Fulham travel to Old Trafford....and Wayne awaited them". They showed some clips of the game and then after said something like "And Rooney was back on form" then proceeded to show his goal and nothing else. Strachan spouted a load of tosh like him being a top top player who makes others play blah blah.

No mention of Giggs. No mention of how actually dire Rooney was. He played terrible overall but had one good moment and then gets all the praise. Unbelievable! 
Silvio Dante (again)


Explaining Sagna's Poor Form
Regarding Kiraldo's email about Sagna, i think a lot can be put down to the leg break. Sometimes players come back well from injuries, i.e. Wilshere, but a lot don't like Djibril Cisse, Ramsey and Cech, who has never been that good again. Maybe you can put it down to seeing your leg at an angle or something. It can effect a player in a lot of ways; you miss a year or more of playing and fall behind in skill and pace etc, and also maybe fear of something horrendous happening again it detracts from their effort either consciously or sub consciously. In years gone by I would have baulked at seeing him go, but after warming to Jenkinson maybe it's time Sagna went back home to the easier French league or something.
Steve (in Arsene we trust!) Australia


Don't Judge Wilf By His Stats
One thing that really annoys me, and has steadily increased over the last few years, is the judging of a player based on his stats. The all mighty statistic has over taken actually watching a player and forming an opinion based on what you see. I will admit I like to annoy Liverpool fans with the fact Stewart Downing went so long without an assist but it was actually watching him be atrocious in games that made me feel comfortable slating him.

The thing which has me writing in now is obviously Zaha's transfer to United and the inevitable stat check by everyone and their dog, 5 goals and 5 assists for a winger in 32 games is proof 15 million is way over priced apparently. This ignores the fact he has played over a hundred games at a championship club and he's only 20. It's accepted that if you buy a young English player you pay an inflated price without bringing up obvious examples.The thing that really annoys me is where's the stats for wingers who beat a player or two and lay the ball off to a player who then passes the ball to the forward who scores? Where's the stats for corners, free kicks or throw ins won which led to goals? The stats for intelligent movement to pull defenders out of position? Players who win penalties are awarded assists but someone who beats 9 men and squares the ball to a forward who misses an open goal doesn't get anything.Would anyone say Raheem Sterling (2 goals 2 assists) hasn't been good enough this season?

What I'm not trying to say is Zaha will definitely be a success, I haven't seen nearly enough of him to judge, but what I have seen is undoubted potential and will reserve judgement until i see more of him myself .There is a reason clubs have people watched in person before signing them. I know it might seem odd to people who spend their Friday setting up their fantasy team, but there's more aspects to winning games than goals and assists that are just as important. Sorry for the rant but what I really wanted to say was put some trousers on, put down the laptop and actually watch some football and judge players properly.
GD, Dublin


On Schmeichel, Keller And De Gea
In response to Ben Baggie, Schmeichel wasn't a world class goalkeeper? I really shouldn't bite at such drivel, but alas I am. You have your opinion about what makes a good goalkeeper, an opinion you seem to think is the only one that matters. My opinion, and I think it's a view shared by many, is that a good goalkeeper is one who keeps the ball out of the goal, hence the name 'goalkeeper'. Schmeichel has the highest ratio of clean sheets:games ratio of any goalkeeper in the premier league era (except John O'Shea of course) playing behind a defence that was generally not as good as the one Seaman played behind. 

So what if he was unorthodox? Michael Johnson's running technique was constantly criticised throughout his career, yet he set world record after world record. I would argue that it takes a lot more than good technique to make a goalkeeper, Schmeichel's ability to organise his defence was second to none, his presence was second to none, his reflexes were second to none, I could go on but I won't because it's absurd to suggest that Schmeichel wasn't a world class goalkeeper, are you saying he wouldn't have made the West Brom team?
Fred, Belfast


...Ben (I could have included Alan Miller and Stuart Naylor in my good keeper list) Baggie. Still laughing at the Villa.

You had me. You really did. I read your whole piece with an open mind thinking "MY GOD MAYBE THE KID HAS SOMETHING!" in a 20's Chicago style voice. And maybe what you said was bait. SCHMEICHEL!!!!! SCHMEICHEL!!!! The behemoth of goalkeeping. The god of thunder. I used to be a staunch ABU but even as a kid I had to admit that Utd fans had every right to be arrogant over their keeper. Overrated? Maybe, I don't really care about that never ending argument, we can't ever prove an answer. 

I remember Schmeichel pulling unreal saves, making himself REALLY BIG and in my opinion him being a total dick to Gary Neville made him a better defender than he ever had to be. It wasn't cause Neville was saving his bacon, Schmeichel demanded big d*ckish standards but hes got the medels to show for it. The epitome of a goalkeeper that defenders feel confident in front of. Goalkeeping is much more than technique pal, its about leadership too. And leadership by technique.

The worst thing I can remember about Peter was that he had a tendancy to be lobbed a few times. Aside from that I can't think of a fault. Kasey Keller may have probably been better for United but Peter also did pretty well in 92 for Denmark, a team that were definitely not considered among the greats (you might want to look that one up). I thought your argument was really thinking outside the box and something to rejoice, but I just couldn't get past this obvious "controversial" pick. 

Past his peak Schmeichel also played for struggling Aston Villa and Man City teams that were flirting in the relegation game. And they stayed up, in an era were Leicester and Southampton were about the same standard, or a little worse or a little better. 

You are a brilliant troll. I am still writing trying to remember the awesomeness of Russell Hoult. He was never top calibre. Good obviously, but never overly wanted.

I imagine there'll be a few of these.
Dave (I can't believe you forgot about Bobby Mimms), Ireland


...Sorry, sorry... Hold on.. Ben, Baggie, did you just say that Kasey Keller was a better keeper than Peter Schmeichal? 

You may very well be still laughing a Villa my friend but I for one am still laughing at you!
Leon, Basel.


...Your argument is so played out it all it highlights is your over-riding desire to be a contrarian and your general lack of respect for the readership of this website.

David de Gea is 22 years old. Not only is he 22 years old and playing in the Premier League but he's 22 years old and first choice keeper at Manchester United. Who are top of the league. And before you say it; they have a back four comprised of perma-crocked young pretenders; a central partnership whose salad days are far behind them; and no one in midfield tasked with the specific job of screening said back for. Add to that a new country, new team mates, a new language, new league and the tiny matter of the pressure cooker that is Old Trafford and what do you get?

A shaky handed, bumbling, clanger-prone experiment bleeding goals on the reg? No you don't. What you actually get is a surprisingly calm and focused young player who on his is capable of keeping out match-winners on his own. And he's only 22. I mean come on man - no technique? You think that's all reflexes do you? No hand-to-eye involved, no positional awareness to those 'tremendous saves'? Mate have you seen his footwork? Don't use a term like 'technique' when you clearly think all that means is 'one's ability to catch' (ps ,Nigel Martyn was not afraid a parry for the cameras).

It's true he's not great at crosses or necessarily communicating with his defenders but - and I know I'm going on here - he's twenty sodding two. He's better than last year, he'll be better next year. Right now, as David James did most of his career, he's winning Utd far more games than he's costing them so let's not write of a 22yr old for not being Buffon quite yet eh mate?

To be honest I could go on but my girlfriend's taking me out for a Thai (swag) and I think I've made my point. Someone else can address can address the 'Schmeichel was over-rated' angle for me. 
Simon (hang on, do you even print mails on the weekend?) CFC 


...Kasey Keller was a far better keeper than Peter Schmeichel? Not even just better, but far better? Ben, that is hilarious. 
I know that one youtube clip isn't a fair representation of an entire career, but about 1.50 into this Keller does something Schmeichel would never have done (and if he did, it definitly wouldn't have been his fault)

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8V4SwZkq1O8
Begbie


...Ben Baggie; the ideal goalkeeper which you seem to be describing is one who is consistent, reliable and composed. Given this, I cannot believe that you are trying to put Ben Foster into this category; a goalkeeper who frequently makes a hash of 'routine' goalkeeping and who is constantly tense. He was allowed to leave Old Trafford because when he was given a chance in the first team he made a series of nervous errors; he was all over the place, and with all respect he couldn't handle the pressure. I simply could not put the words 'composed' and 'reliable' alongside 'Ben Foster'. However, he is a fine shot-stopper. In fact, Foster is a perfect example of the 'hero' goalkeeper whose reputation has been founded on great shot-stopping performances, rather than solidity. 'Fools', as you call them. 

Whilst I don't disagree with every point you make, your central argument is, I think, wrong. Having been a goalkeeper for many years, I think I can say with confidence that goalkeeping is actually mainly about presence. This is both the mental fortitude which you alluded to with Joe Hart's arrogance and the physical size to intimidate strikers and cover the goal more easily. I agree that the right technique does make things easier, and being composed helps with decision making. But you simply cannot disregard the physical aspect of goalkeeping. Seaman was a great keeper but in the last five or six years of his career he turned into something of an embarrassment, because whilst his technique, reliability and composure were still there, he became cumbersome and immobile. 

For my money, Van der Sar and Cech are both easily the best Premier League goalkeepers of the last ten years, for whilst they possessed all of the technique and composure which you hold in such regard, they were also big, physical keepers who possessed the raw goalkeeping attributes, such as agility and quick reflexes. In the final analysis, saving shots is what goalkeeping is about.

I can only hope that your tongue has spent much of its time in your cheek.
Joe (claiming Kasey Keller was better than Peter Schmeichel is possibly the most mental thing I've ever heard) O'Grady

Perhaps the easiest way to demonstrate the value of statistics and more specifically the value of looking at the right statistics is to look back at the track record of success of volume shooters in both the NBA and WNBA draft.

And really we're not talking about the mysterious advanced statistical sorcery of magic wizards, but simple things like the percentage of attempted shots a player makes.

Every year in both the NBA and WNBA draft, at least an exciting player at a major program fools a general manager into selecting them in the first round with a high scoring average that obscures a low shooting percentage. If they make the team/rotation, they get their chances to make an impression in their rookie year, eventually fall out of favor with the team that drafted them when they realize they were looking for actual points instead of attempted points, and then float around the pro basketball world as teams try to find a role for the player who was once such a promising scorer.

Every now and then, you'll get an Allen Iverson, a player who seemingly shoots indiscriminately but is so dominant that he actually makes quite a few of the shots he takes. Similarly, sometimes you'll find a Riquna Williams whose inefficient volume shooting in college might also reflect a transferrable ability to create shot attempts, which can certainly be valuable in certain situations. Along those lines, sometimes a point guard will be look like a poor shooter simply because their college team demanded that they do it all: pass, score, and figure out when to alternate between the two during matchups, which is a valuable skill even if the statistics aren't perfect.

But caveats aside, looking at scoring efficiency rather than scoring average tends to be the best way to separate WNBA prospects from non-prospects and the fact is that after you sort all of that out you're left with a very small pool of strong prospects.

Statistics will never capture everything that counts: intelligence, leadership, maturity, and work ethic among other things can go a long way to overcome or undermine statistical indicators. But a large part of drafting well comes down to managing risk; nothing, even the exact quality of production of a consensus top pick, is certain in a draft context. Ultimately, the best general managers are able to look at a player's entire portfolio - film, statistics, and "intangibles" - and discriminate between the information that matters and that which is either irrelevant or less significant.

The 2013 WNBA Draft is deep in the sense that there are a number of athletes who have been very productive and even elevated the profile of their college programs. But upon further scrutiny, one thing that really stands out is that a number of highly touted prospects entering this college season are productive in terms of averages yet not particularly efficient in terms of rates of production. And although every player and her fans wants to believe that she can create her own legacy, there is a historical record that of successful and unsuccessful profiles that is extremely useful in projecting the future success of a given prospect. Furthermore, as it turns out it's much easier to look back at the past and figure risk factors for an unsuccessful transition from college to the pros than vice versa - in other words, figuring out who probably shouldn't be among the 36 players drafted is often much easier than figuring out exactly how much they will contribute to a WNBA team. Nevertheless, even in a draft that everyone considers deep, there are a number of statistical indicators that might help us separate great college players from great WNBA prospects and put prospects in tiers for a draft board rather than a strict rank-order hierarchy.

The following are a few major statistical "red flags" that have limited NCAA Division I players' chances at a successful transition to the WNBA in recent years.

Red flags for WNBA draft prospects
Perimeter scorers with low shooting efficiency

Some people like to harp on guards who can't shoot, but some of them are occasionally successful as described above. A harbinger for struggling to make the league is being a volume shooting non-point guard 5'7” or under who doesn't score efficiently. There is currently one notable exception in the league right now: Riquna Williams and a major reason for that is that she is just so athletic that she can continue getting her shots in the pros.

As an extension of that, wings with 2-point percentages under 46% tend not to be very successful prospects, although there were two rookie exceptions just this past WNBA season: Williams and Natalie Novosel. Another exception coming out of college was Karima Christmas, who now has a championship ring. There's potentially an adjustment that helps to explain that, but we're not going to disprove a rule with exceptions for now - Christmas and Williams had physical attributes that helped them overcome the poor shooting and Novosel played limited minutes on the worst team in the league. It's not common for a wing to enter the league with a low 2-point percentage and succeed.

Examples from the 2012-13 senior class: Sugar Rodgers, Georgetown; Nicole Dickson, Memphis; Whitney Hand, Oklahoma

Poor rebounding guards

A large part of the reason why inefficient scoring tends to hurt perimeter scorers differently from other positions is that they tend not to contribute in other ways if they can't score: point guards can run an offense and pick up assists, post players can get rebounds.

Nevertheless, although we typically don't expect guards to come into the league and contribute much on the boards, really poor rebounding wings (under 3% offensive rebounding percentage) tend not to do all that well. Again, point guards are a major exception to that although rebounding helps those that meet the other criteria.

What poor offensive rebounding - especially in conjunction with a low free throw rate and sub-point guard assist ratio - tends to say about a guard is that they're limited athletically in terms of their ability to impact a game.

Example from the 2012-13 senior class: Alex Bentley, Penn State; Lindsey Moore, Nebraska

Low usage rates

For all we want to talk about how the WNBA is about fundamentals and teamwork, the draft record pretty clearly reflects that players with low usage rates in Division I basketball don't tend to be very "successful". Typically, falling under a usage rate of 18% at any position limits a players chances for WNBA success (with an exception for centers because their ability to score at a high rate typically depends on the efficiency with which their guards get them the ball).

The reason for this might seem obvious at first: if you can't easily create a shot for yourself and aren't a point guard (who can create shots for others), you become a liability to an offense at the next level. However, that doesn't quite explain why low usage players (guards especially) struggle to even get drafted: it might be equally plausible that players with low usage rates don't stand out to scouts because they don't score much or get knocked for being passive.

In any event, we can probably add some nuance to the shot maker vs. shot taker dichotomy: between inefficient shot-takers and efficient "limited shot takers" (players with low usage percentages), the former might have an advantage in terms achieving success. There are a number of potential explanations for that – that have little to do with how much a player contributes to her team, by the way – but non-shot takers outside the point guard position could almost be considered non-prospects.

Examples from the 2012-13 senior class: Jenny Ryan, Michigan; Kelly Farris, UConn; Taelor Karr, Gonzaga; Haley Steed, BYU; Adrian Ritchie, Wisconsin - Green Bay

Post players with low offensive rebounding numbers

It might be obvious why this one becomes a red flag: offensive rebounding is a skill distinct and more significant than defensive rebounding for draft prospects in the NBA and WNBA for what it represents as much as generating a second shot.

There are a lot of tall players who get defensive rebounds simply by being tall and typically positioned near the basket in an advantageous position to get to the ball. Offensive rebounding, in contrast, takes a combination of athleticism, basketball IQ, instinct, a whole bunch of neurological stuff, and most of all effort. So tall post players (even 6'3" and above) who don't get a high percentage of offensive rebounds sometimes struggle to meet expectations at the pro level because one of those things isn't present.

Examples from the 2012-13 senior class: Carolyn Davis, Kansas

Power forwards 6'1” and under

I know this one sounds arbitrary and with wingspan mattering more than "top of the head" height it sounds misguided.

Yet the fact remains that college power forwards 6'1” and under simply aren't very successful prospects and those that are were very efficient scorers in college (2-point percentages of 52% and above). Even then, the track record for success isn't all that strong: only five college power forwards under 6'1" lasted the season on WNBA rosters last season and one - Danielle Adams - is something of an anomaly because she was such a good passer and 3-point shooter in college.

This flag isn't so much about success vs non-successful as much as quality: Adams and Sophia Young are obviously prime examples of players who have overcome being undersized to carve out a niche for themselves, but players like Alysha Clark and Ashley Walker have struggled to even make teams. Where it really does become a matter of roster-worthiness is when undersized power forwards weren't very efficient scorers in college.

Examples from the 2012-13 senior class: Destiny Williams, Baylor; Morgan Stroman, Miami

Centers with true shooting percentages under 55%

Centers are an interesting bunch of prospects because a lot of what they do offensively depends on their guard play. So if they're not efficient scorers, a major question for them appears to be whether they can help the team in ways other than scoring. That's where their value added rating comes in, which is their Model Estimated Value minus their points scored.

Centers with a value added rating over 2.22 tend to do well even if they are inefficient scorers. Since 2005, there are three examples of value added being a “protective factor” for a player with a low true shooting percentage coming out of the NCAA: Nicky Anosike, Janel McCarville and Krystal Thomas.

In other words, inefficient scoring centers have a pretty tough time making the league.

Examples from the 2012-13 senior class: Kelsey Bone, Texas A&M

Inefficient ball handling

ESPN's John Hollinger has made the point in his NBA draft rater that low pure point ratings are actually a red flag at any position (adjusted by position) and that tends to be the case in the WNBA as well though looking at why a player has a low pure point rating tends to be important.

For point guards, not having a high pure point rating is a problem to begin with so dropping into negative numbers is obviously a bigger problem.

For wings, the problem with a low pure point rating should be obvious: for players who end up in position to dribble and pass the ball more often, a low pure point rating reflects some combination of poor ball handling, passing, or decision-making ability. A wing that can't dribble or pass efficiently is going to be a limited player at the next level. But sometimes a high turnover ratio isn't a bad thing for a wing prospect: for high usage players, high turnover ratios can simply be a function of the player's aggression attacking the basket. Similar to what has been mentioned previously, when they get to the pros and are asked to create less the turnovers become less of a problem.

Post players with low pure point ratings (less than -6.00) are a bit more complicated - sometimes got those numbers because they played big minutes and didn't get a lot of assists meaning they had considerably less weighted assists than turnovers. However, that's not quite as big a problem as a post player who has a low pure point rating because they do in fact turn the ball over a lot (a turnover ratio of 15% and above). In addition, high usage post players sometimes turn the ball over simply as a function of getting more opportunities than they really should - with less touches in the pros, suddenly turnovers are less of a problem.

Still, a low pure point rating is a red flag that can limit a player's success even if they do end up making a roster and tends to be hard to ignore.

Examples from the 2012-13 senior class: Chelsea Poppens, Iowa State; Morgan Stroman, Miami; Markel Walker, UCLA; Kevi Luper, Oral Roberts; Jasmine Dixon, UCLA (2011); Chucky Jeffery, Colorado; Davellyn Whyte, Arizona

Mid-major players

People are obviously skeptical of mid-major players for good reason, but since 2005 about 50% of Division I mid-major players drafted have actually stuck on a roster for a season (25 of 48, which is a bit less than the rate of major conference players albeit there have been 250+ of those). Yet over the last five seasons, only six mid-major players have lasted on a roster for two seasons and only two (Amber Holt and Leilani Mitchell) have been a full-time starter at any point in that time.

So what should we make of mid-major statistics? If mid-major lottery picks like Amber Harris and Courtney Vandersloot have struggled and only one has made it as a full-time starter as a rookie (Holt), should we just ignore them?

The one thing that really stands out about mid-major players is that they have been hurt by the 11-player roster limit - in terms of making rosters - more than almost any other large category of player (another category would be 3-point specialists, who are essentially non-existent in the league after the roster limit was imposed). A lot of those 25 that made rosters in their draft year didn't last more than a season. Most have bounced around. The last mid-major All-Star drafted was Candice Dupree.

But there's another angle on the mid-major prospect that can't be ignored: the last two seasons have been a testament to the value of patience with players coming from less prominent programs. Jessica Adair, Alysha Clark, Natasha Lacy, and undrafted Avery Warley are all examples of mid-major players who weren't immediately successful prospects but worked on their games overseas and returned to be solid rotation players.

Ultimately, the discussion of mid-majors is simply worth a separate article, which we'll get to later. But it's safe to say that some adjustment should be made for mid-major statistics.

So are all these players just non-prospects?

Just as yesterday's statistics were presented with a caveat about those being junior year numbers, every single one of these should be taken the same way - although each of the players listed above has a weakness that would be a concern if they were being drafted today, the fact is that they have a full senior season to improve upon those weaknesses (and reinforce strengths).

But looking at the junior season numbers in depth like this is useful: in addition to providing some idea of what specifically to watch for throughout the season among those who might have their names called on draft day, it gives us a baseline from which to gauge improvement. Some of these statistical observations may indeed indicate low ceilings for some of these players, but the reason these players are listed above instead of the hundreds of others who have statistics that make them a non-prospect is that even marginal improvement upon their weaknesses is almost certain to improve their status on draft day.

On draft day, it will come down to general managers weighing a prospect's strengths and weaknesses and figuring out whether she can succeed in their system.
